<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e368"><title>Asynchronous conversations</title><body><p>Nearly all <indexterm>technical documentation<indexterm>benefiting from
              conversation</indexterm></indexterm>documentation can be considered an
            asynchronous<indexterm>asynchronous conversation</indexterm>
          <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>asynchronous</indexterm></indexterm>conversation
          between reader and writer, meaning that the messages can be written or received at any
          time regardless of the sender or receiver’s schedule. The reader is an audience that the
          writer has considered before determining what to write. As Ginny Redish<indexterm>Redish,
            Ginny</indexterm> says in her book, <i>Letting Go of the Words: Writing Web Content that
            Works</i>, writers can relate to solving the issues of “helping people get just what
          they need, when they need it, in the amount they need, as quickly as possible.” Good
          information chunking and organizing practices create a just-in-time conversation to help
          someone, somewhere accomplish his or her goals.</p><p><indexterm>Hyde, Adam</indexterm>Adam Hyde, founder of <indexterm>FLOSS Manuals<indexterm>collaborative writing</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>collaboration<indexterm>FLOSS
              Manuals</indexterm></indexterm>FLOSS Manuals, finds that conversation has a clear and
          direct value in the in-person events called Book Sprints that serve to create content from
          outlines in a short period of time, such as a week. He perceives that the <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>in-person</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>conversations<indexterm>Book Sprints</indexterm></indexterm>conversation takes place
          on at least four <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>levels
            of</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content<indexterm>collaboration in
              creating</indexterm></indexterm>levels: </p><ul><li>In the room: With all participants seated around the same table conversations need to
            be fostered. Unlike traditional writing processes, this is a noisy environment and
            chatter should be encouraged. It is through these across-the-table conversations that
            the participants are harmonizing their ideas about what they are writing.</li><li>In the text: The texts themselves are conversations. Do not be protective about the
            content you contribute­—encourage others to read it, change it, delete it etc. The
            continual combing through of the content by many eyes is a fundamental tenet of Free
            Software and serves equally well in this environment. This constant changing is itself a
            conversation happening in the text and it is essential for improving and harmonizing the
            content.</li><li>Outside the room: Be in touch with people outside the room and ask for their take on
            the texts. It is important to know if the texts really are going in a direction that can
            be understood by people that have not been privy to the conversations in the Book Sprint
            room. Encourage remote participants to feed back into the conversation via <indexterm>Internet Relay Chat (IRC)</indexterm><indexterm>conversations<indexterm>Internet
                Relay Chat (IRC)</indexterm></indexterm>Internet Relay Chat (<indexterm>IRC
              (Internet Relay Chat)</indexterm>IRC), email, editing, and the FLOSS Manuals web
            chat.</li><li>With the reader: When writing, use a direct and friendly and conversational voice. One
            trick to getting disk jockeys to relax and sound ‘normal’ on air is to cut out a picture
            of a face, stick it to the microphone and ask the DJ to talk ‘to’ that person. This
            works. We have not tried this approach yet in Book Sprints, however the same effect can
            be achieved by thinking of the reader as someone you know well and respect. Write to
            that person as if you were explaining something you know they don’t understand. </li></ul></body></subsection>