<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e465"><title>Reasons for moving content towards the social web</title><body><p>As Harry Miller at <indexterm>content<indexterm>moving to social
          web</indexterm></indexterm>Microsoft pondered in a podcast in mid-2000, what if a user
        guide had to read like an Instant Messaging, or IM,<indexterm>IM (Instant
          Messaging)</indexterm>
        <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>instant
        messaging</indexterm></indexterm>conversation—quick, real-time questions and fast answers,
        tailored to nearly every potential customer situation?<fn>
          <p>
            http://blogs.msdn.com/harrymiller/archive/2007/07/16/the-im-model-of-tech-writing.aspx</p>
        </fn> We may be seeing the birth of such a user’s guide with Twitter’s popularity as a
        customer care platform and the <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>user growth
          rate</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter user base growing at a rate of over 30% in one month
        (February 2009).<fn>
          <p> http://siteanalytics.compete.com/facebook.com+twitter.com/?metric=uv</p>
        </fn></p><p>Different users have different <indexterm>technical documentation<indexterm>expectations
            for</indexterm></indexterm>expectations and needs for documentation. Some users expect
        precise answers from a user guide. Some want to impress people with their knowledge and
        efficiency. Others might have a particular aversion to truly learning a product because they
        use the product only once every other month to perform a specific (perhaps boring) task. The
        manual that you write might not respond to all of these needs just yet. But if you keep
        enabling conversations with users, your documentation can anticipate questions and give
        answers so responsively that your users might wonder if there’s a ghost in the machine. But
        even if your documentation can’t “talk back” to your users, it can help users talk to each
        other and make connections that help them do their jobs well, play with technology at home,
        or learn something new in a classroom setting. Instead of concentrating on single sourcing
        methods or the tools of the trade, think about <indexterm>technical documentation<indexterm>benefiting from conversation</indexterm></indexterm>documentation and user assistance
        as a multiple-channel communication device, perhaps with the help of some social technology
        applications.</p><p>Many skills that are valuable in delivering traditional user assistance are easily
        transferable to social network integration for user assistance. These skills include:</p><ul><li>Excellent communication</li><li>Concise writing</li><li>Good design</li><li>Planning</li></ul></body></subsection>