<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e441"><title>Agile development and conversations for collaboration</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>development</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p><indexterm>conversations<indexterm>Agile development
            and</indexterm></indexterm>Agile<indexterm>Agile development</indexterm>
            development<indexterm>development</indexterm> techniques may involve writing user
          stories that can be developed and designed within a “sprint” or iteration that may be as
          short as two weeks. Teams applying this type of development strive to develop robust
          software rapidly, including testing and documenting it, so that the new story can be
          played out immediately after the end of the iteration. By leveraging the Agile user story,
          which should be user-centric and task-oriented, writers can put themselves into the place
          of a customer. Because Agile development encourages developers to write the user story
          while developing the product, the goal is to match the user’s expectations quickly. In
          some ways, Agile development lends itself well to <indexterm>Web 2.0<indexterm>fit with
              Agile development</indexterm></indexterm>Web 2.0 tools and pushes the user story that
          may be told with social web tools such as blogs or wikis towards the development phase
          rather than the post-release phase. </p><p>If we can get closer to the users by finding out their documentation needs, we can better
          understand their product needs. Then, we can help build in solutions to these needs during
          the design of our products, moving ourselves closer to the design stages rather than
          relegating documentation as an afterthought of development. Collaboration with users can
          go a long way towards collaboration in the workplace during product design. </p></body></subsection>