<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e51"><title>How people communicate about technical topics today </title><body><p>The increasing complexity of what we want to do with technology has driven us to talk to
        people through various methods in order to make gadgets work, or software function. How has
        changing technology affected how these conversations are held? An example of how technical
        documentation has changed over the years is sewing patterns. Historically, people talked
        face to face to teach others how to sew a quilt for a bed cover, for example. Next, the
        patterns were written down, and the advent of printing meant that patterns could be produced
        for anyone in their home. Today’s quilting instructions are not only disseminated on the
        Internet, but people everywhere write instructions to each other on <indexterm>mailing
            lists<indexterm>community-based content</indexterm></indexterm>mailing lists and forums,
        quilters are writing <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>reduction of publishing
          costs</indexterm></indexterm>blogs,<fn>
          <p> My mom writes a quilting blog at quilterjan.blogspot.com and has over 30,000 hits in
            the 15 months she has been writing. </p>
        </fn> and online <indexterm>communities<indexterm>quilting</indexterm></indexterm>communities are forming around the passion for quilts and
        quilting.</p><p>Over the years, the <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>cost of</indexterm></indexterm>cost
        of <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>ease of</indexterm></indexterm>conversation has
        dropped across a number of areas. We have gone from the need to design, then write, and then
        go through a long, sometimes arduous publishing<indexterm>publishing<indexterm>changes
            in</indexterm></indexterm> process (that was out of reach for ordinary people) to
        print-on-demand services and other “instant” methods for publication. With <indexterm>blogging<indexterm>microblogging</indexterm></indexterm>microblogging services like
        Twitter, you can merely have a thought, decide to express it, type it on your
          smartphone<indexterm>iPhone</indexterm>, and immediately push it out to all your
        followers. It’s a searchable piece of content and can even be re-used as a sidebar on a
        “macro” blog. Communication is immediate and filtered as the recipient requests.</p></body></subsection>