<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e99"><title>Anticipating actions and questions</title><body><p>As a professional writer entering the wiki world, I had to determine my goals for designing
        documentation that would be part of a <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>community</indexterm></indexterm>conversation within a community. I learned that
        conversations are typically measured in three areas within an enterprise: public relations,
        customer support, and sales and marketing. With this framework in mind, I determined that my
        best fit was in the customer support area for One Laptop per Child<indexterm>One Laptop per
            Child<indexterm>author's experience with</indexterm></indexterm> when I volunteered to
        write documentation for parents, teachers, and students using the sturdy hardware and open
        source education platform. An open source project or platform means that the goods and
        knowledge that built it are freely available to copy, distribute, and modify so that it can
        be shared with others, even the source code. </p><p>When you start supporting customers, especially for technical information, you want to
        analyze their tasks and anticipate their questions. In <i>The 4-Hour Workweek</i>, Timothy
          <indexterm>Ferriss, Timothy</indexterm>Ferriss says that the first web page you create
        when automating the business of selling a product or service should be <i>a list of actual
          asked questions</i>. He says you should build up your list of questions over time as you
        answer the questions yourself. </p><p>This type of do-it-yourself approach is excellent for producing documentation like the
          horse-training<indexterm>training</indexterm> books touted as best in class by Kathy
          <indexterm>Sierra, Kathy</indexterm>Sierra. Kathy Sierra is a master trainer, creator of
        the HeadFirst series, and authored the Creating Passionate Users <indexterm>blogs,
            examples<indexterm>Creating Passionate Users</indexterm></indexterm>blog. According to
        her, books that embed questions right within the instructions are “the best user manuals
        EVER.” Her blog entry on “Creating Passionate Users,”<fn>
          <p> http://headrush.typepad.com/creating_passionate_users/2006/09/how_to_get_user.html</p>
        </fn> states that a good manual for a complex product should include at least five distinct
        sections: Reference Guide, Tutorial, Learning/Understanding, Cookbook/Recipe, and Start
        Here. Her detailed descriptions of each section describe, in essence, John Carroll’s basic
        concepts of <indexterm>minimalist documentation</indexterm>minimal documentation.<fn>
          <p> Minimalism was first described by John <indexterm>Carroll, John</indexterm>Carroll as
            an instructional design philosophy at the IBM Watson Research Center in the 1980s,
            presented in his book <ph>The Nurnberg Funnel</ph>.</p>
        </fn> And the principles of minimal documentation play a major role in creating
        documentation that fits into user conversation. Minimalist principles encourage both writer
        and instructor to:</p><ul><li>Get the user up and running quickly</li><li>Let the user think and improvise</li><li>Focus on real work and real goals</li><li>Make use of user’s prior knowledge</li><li>Use error recognition and error recovery as learning helpers</li></ul><p>Kathy Sierra seems to be describing manuals that support popular consumer products, like
        TiVo digital video recorders or MOTORAZR mobile phones. Learning about consumer products may
        inspire more passion and excitement in writers, both amateur and professional, than writing
        about products that are used in the workplace (and perhaps for boring or dirty jobs). Others
        may be passionate and inspired by open source products. Still others may enjoy documenting
        medical devices. And, for the most part, the documents that writers are paid to write are
        for products that help people do their jobs. So although Sierra’s outline does not seem
        widely applicable for all technical documents, it makes one wonder just how these types of
        sections could be worked into the existing documents. Would any particular audience
        appreciate sections that have the type of information that she’s talking about? Most likely
        the answer is yes. And wouldn’t we all like to be a little more passionate about the tools
        we use every day?</p><p>In addition to finding passion in the tasks users do, writers should be applying customer
        support data, to help them keep up with changes in questions as time goes on and as releases
        go out the door. Much like the most popular <indexterm>Google<indexterm>search</indexterm></indexterm>Google search<indexterm>search<indexterm>relevance</indexterm></indexterm> hits, the most frequently accessed questions and
        answers should rise to the top of a customer support knowledge base. Interviewing those who
        spend the most time on the phone or in the field with customers gives us valuable insight
        into the questions that are currently being asked.</p></body></subsection>