<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e537"><title>Social media, social networking, and now the social web</title><body><p><indexterm>social media<indexterm>defining</indexterm></indexterm>Social media is still
        being defined, but over the past few years, more people have weighed in on the definition.
        It’s an interesting use of social media to study the definition of social media. For
        example, the Wikipedia<indexterm>Wikipedia</indexterm> entry about social media points to
        the popular tech blogger Robert Scoble’s blog post about social media in which he defined
        social media as news media pitting old media against new media. But even though social media
        is compared to newspapers and journalism, technical writers can think of themselves as
        interviewers and journalists. A journalism background may help you see ways to present
        information in a news-delivery style. <indexterm>Abel, Scott</indexterm>Scott Abel, creator
        of The <indexterm>Content Wrangler, The</indexterm>Content Wrangler website and community,
        has a journalism background and purposely runs The Content Wrangler site more like a
        magazine than a blog.</p><p>Many companies invest in social media projects through their marketing or advertisement
        departments. Technical writers, however, should not dismiss the application of social media
        to their deliverables because it appears at first glance to be more of a marketing function
        or a method of building up a brand. </p><p>Social media, social networking, and the social web are related concepts but separately
        defined from Web 2.0. As social media researcher <indexterm>boyd, danah</indexterm>danah
        boyd, (she prefers no capitalization of her name), points out in a talk at the Microsoft
        Research Tech Fest called, Social Media is Here to Stay… Now What? Web 2.0 has different
        meanings for technologists, businesses, and users. She also says, “Social media is the
        latest buzzword in a long line of buzzwords.”<fn>
          <p> http://www.danah.org/papers/talks/MSRTechFest2009.html</p>
        </fn></p><p>No matter what the preferred term is, those of us researching social aspects of information
        dissemination can find many applications beyond news reporting and brand building for social
        media. The next chapter explores some of the basics and then dives into examples of web
        applications that enable social media.</p></body></subsection>