<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e282"><title>Types of writing influenced by the social web</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>social media<indexterm>influence on technical
            documentation</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>influence on technical documentation</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p>In February, 2008, STC President Linda <indexterm>Oestriech, Linda</indexterm>Oestriech
        stated in a podcast<indexterm>podcasts<indexterm>Tech Writer Voices</indexterm></indexterm>
        on Tech Writer Voices<fn>
          <p>
            http://www.idratherbewriting.com/2008/02/05/interview-with-stc-president-linda-oestreich-the-direction-the-stc-is-heading/</p>
        </fn>, “We aren’t the technical writers of the 70s.” I might add that we aren’t even the
        technical writers of the 90s. How have <indexterm>technical documentation<indexterm>changes
            in</indexterm></indexterm>changing technology and expectations influenced technical
        communication and writing today compared to 10 or 30 years ago?</p><p>Many have been wondering about the state of technical communications and looking to the
        history of it for insight. For example, Jared Spool, a usability consultant, describes a
        past when technical people and engineers expected to learn every detail about a product and
        had no expectations of simply being able to pick something up and know how to use it. He
        describes how the user manuals weighed more than the product itself (and this was when
        computers filled a room). In those days, he says users invested enough in the technology
        that they wanted to learn the product, and started with reading the manuals.<fn>
          <p> http://www.uie.com/brainsparks/2007/05/16/where-did-technical-writing-go/</p>
        </fn></p><p>In contrast, Kathy <indexterm>Sierra, Kathy</indexterm>Sierra describes a successful manual
        today as a page-turner—user-friendly, one that users learn from, one that pushes users to
        higher levels of understanding by being motivating as well informational. Technical writers
        can deliver that user manual in the right corporate environment, or publishers can hire
        writers to deliver that user manual for sale in bookstores. </p><p>Technical communication is not just about writing, and has always spanned multiple areas of
        expertise. User interface design and usability play a large part in communicating technical
        information so that users can do neat things with a technical product. Because our audiences
        use technology more often, but also demand simplicity and elegance, many products have
        become easier and more intuitive to use. As more products are available in a global
        marketplace, words are increasingly substituted with images and illustrations.
          Video<indexterm>video<indexterm>communicating technical topics
          with</indexterm></indexterm> editors and video producers are technical communicators as
        they develop training<indexterm>training</indexterm> courses. The market for words and
        printed books still exists, but favors “missing manuals,” guides for dummies, and other
        books that teach or instruct. </p></body></subsection>