<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e518"><title>Pack carefully when moving content towards conversation </title><body><p>Technical writers have plenty of good reasons to avoid actual <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>enabling</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>conversations<indexterm>avoiding</indexterm></indexterm>conversations with customers.
          We are not usually trained to handle an angry customer or to troubleshoot the product at
          the technical level that is necessary. But technical writers are typically good at
          learning quickly and applying technology to solve problems. You might think that social
          media or social networking is meant only for young people, or that only a person with too
          much spare time appreciates things like social bookmarking or Second Life. But these
          technologies do not belong only to the young, the technically savvy, or the extremely
          extroverted. The demographics for both Facebook and Twitter users show trends towards an
          aging group. The fastest growing demographic group for Facebook in February 2009 includes
          people over the age of 35<fn>
            <p> http://www.facebook.com/press/info.php?statistics</p>
          </fn> and more than 40% of Twitter users are age 35–49.</p><p>Technical communicators are already skilled in many of these technologies and just have
          to learn to apply them to communication with users. Welcome and seek out internal coaching
          in the area of customer communications, though. Missteps may cause setbacks in your plans
          to enable customer connections with your documentation. Also, ensure that your plans mesh
          with an overall corporate social media strategy. </p></body></subsection>