<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e189"><title>Search may affect delivery and presentation methods</title><body><p><indexterm>content<indexterm>searching for</indexterm></indexterm>Search technology and
          its application by users has changed the face and entry point to <indexterm>technical
              documentation<indexterm>searching</indexterm></indexterm>technical documentation. The
          entry point is the page your user lands on first, also called a landing page. Sometimes
          landing pages are text-heavy and feature-focused rather than task-oriented. Search forms
          and entering a couple of keywords are more often the starting point for users reading
          online help.</p><p>How many times have you heard someone say, “I found the following Microsoft<indexterm>Microsoft<indexterm>Knowledge Base, searching</indexterm></indexterm> Knowledge Base
          article using a Google search<indexterm>search<indexterm>accessing documentation
              through</indexterm></indexterm>” (or have said the same thing yourself)? Microsoft has
          built excellent content in their Knowledge Base, but a competitor’s search engine often
          brings users to the site. Although the Knowledge Base must have a search engine available
          to visitors (much like a manual of some sort is still required for many consumer
          products), when a visitor finds the content by using another search engine, all the
          resources, time, and money spent on providing a search engine on that Knowledge Base were
          wasted. The company experiences zero return on investment<indexterm>return on investment
              (ROI)<indexterm>search implementation</indexterm></indexterm> for the <indexterm>search<indexterm>investment in</indexterm></indexterm>search engine, but total return
          on investment on the <indexterm>return on investment (ROI)<indexterm>content
              development</indexterm></indexterm>content itself. </p><p>Search relevance has to do with Google’s secret algorithms and the calculations used for
          ranking by any search engine. This relevance brings a user to your content when they are
          seeking an answer to a specific question. If your help system does not follow Google’s
          basic Webmaster guidelines,<fn>
            <p> http://www.google.com/support/webmasters/?hl=en</p>
          </fn> it may not be found as often as blog entries on the same topic. For example, Google
          indicates that fewer than 100 links from a sitemap are ideal, and warns that not every
          search engine spider searches dynamic pages with multiple parameters in the URL. You may
          have noticed that a recently <indexterm>content<indexterm>up-to-date</indexterm></indexterm>updated blog entry or wiki page tends to have more
          links to its entries by Google. A commenter notes this in a comment on the blog entry in
          the Britannica <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>search rankings</indexterm></indexterm>blog.<fn>
            <p>
              http://www.britannica.com/blogs/2008/11/the-fast-food-information-age-we-are-what-we-read/</p>
          </fn> “Perhaps another idea would be to ask Google WHY the social media (i.e. Wikipedia)
          entry for a topic ranks so much higher than the vetted, Britannica entry?”</p><p>Secret algorithms or not, as a writer you need to understand your user’s entry points.
          Search is important to conversational documentation because of the importance search
          engines place on frequently-updated content. If your user assistance system is offline or
          infrequently updated, your users may not find answers by searching with popular search
          engines. For example, Google gives a higher <indexterm>search<indexterm>rankings</indexterm></indexterm>search ranking to more oft-updated content. </p><p><indexterm>help, online<indexterm>searching within</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>help, online<indexterm>finding</indexterm></indexterm>Naturally, you know your audience
          best. If they do not require online access to use your product, they may not search for
          answers to questions in a search engine. </p><p>Merely using a blog or <indexterm>wikis<indexterm>search
            relevance</indexterm></indexterm>wiki as a holding place for content may improve the
          search ranking. You may think that your users will search within the help in the product
          itself, but you may find, as the Britannica blog writer did, that between 90 and 98% of
          library users in 2008 assumed they could get all relevant information on a subject by
          simply searching on Google. </p><p>If these results are also true for users of the product that you document, then you need
          to try to get search words pointing to your online user assistance. A good first step is
          to ensure that your online user assistance is available on the Internet to be found by
          search engines. Also find out what your users search for, and then determine how you want
          to improve the ranking of those searches. Perhaps you want to integrate user-generated
          content into your user assistance if search engines tend to value those entries more than
          others. </p><p>You can also place a carefully-crafted search index as the entry point to <indexterm>content<indexterm>community-generated</indexterm></indexterm>community content. Adobe
          created a Google Custom Search Engine as a front-end to community content and
          hand-selected the most useful community offerings such as blogs and video tutorials at
          community.adobe.com. By indexing only the highest-quality outside resources, Adobe helps
          build trust with the readers that use the search hits to find information.</p></body></subsection>