<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="conceptId">
 <title>Overview of the PDF-D4P transformation type</title>
 <shortdesc>The PDF-D4P transformation type extends the base PDF transformation type in order to make configuration of the overall publication structure easier and more flexible.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>As of version 1.5.4M2 of the Open Toolkit, the PDF transformation type has a number of limitations that make it harder than it should be to do things like generate covers and customize the details of page geometry, the order of components, especially generated components like the ToC, and page breaks before specific topics or topic types.</p>
    <p>The PDF-D4P transformation type is an experimental refactoring of the base PDF transformation type with the goal of making it easier to customize the overall look and feel of a publication.</p>
    <p>The transformation type provides the following new features:<ul
      id="ul_kdd_jab_jd">
      <li>Enables easy creation of front and back covers.</li>
      <li>Makes it easier to add new page masters and page sequence masters.</li>
      <li>Makes it easier to control how specific topic types create page breaks.</li>
      <li>Makes it possible to have multiple top-level topics in a single page sequence.</li>
      <li>Makes it possible to customize the details of page sequence generation.</li>
      <li>Enables (but doesn't implement) the ability to have a single topic result in multiple page sequences.</li>
      <li>Addresses a number of other convenience factors or missing features in the base PDF transform.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>The PDF-D4P transformation type is implemented as a separate transformation type that overrides and extends the base PDF transformation type. You can use the same customization mechanism and global extension points for customizing the PDF-D4P transformation type as you use for the base PDF transformation type. In general, the PDF-D4P transformation type retains the original mechanisms (attribute sets, named templates, modes, etc.) except where needed to implement new features. This means that many customizations of the base PDF transforms should continue to work, especially those that only modify attribute sets or add overrides for existing templates not involved with handling of top-level topics. Customizations that override templates from <filepath>root-processing.xsl</filepath>, <filepath>commons.xsl</filepath>, or <filepath>layout-masters.xsl</filepath> will probably need to be reworked (and should become simpler or unneeded in many cases).</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
