<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e108"><title>Choosing a blog platform</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>blogging<indexterm>platforms</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>platforms</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p>I was fortunate when just starting blogging because the blogging tool was already
          selected. All I had to do was get registered and start writing. I could also practice with
          the blogging interface itself, learning what I liked and disliked in a blogging engine.
          Because the engine choices were out of my hands in my early blog writing attempts (the
          internal BMC blogs were maintained on a Sun<indexterm>Sun Microsystems<indexterm>blogging
              platform</indexterm></indexterm> blogging platform), I did not have the added pressure
          of evaluating<indexterm>evaluation<indexterm>of blogging engines</indexterm></indexterm>
          tools.</p><p>If the blog platform is not already selected for you, compare blog platforms at
            <indexterm>weblogmatrix.org</indexterm><indexterm>blogging<indexterm>tools</indexterm></indexterm>weblogmatrix.org to assist in your selection process. The
          system requirements for the platform may eliminate some. Another consideration for
          choosing a blog platform is the ability to connect to the audience you want to converse
          with using comments and link notifications called trackbacks. Trackback notifications are
          given to the blogger when you link to their blog entry, but typically only work within the
          same blogging system. For example, <indexterm>WordPress</indexterm>WordPress blogs cannot
          notify Blogger blogs about a link to an entry, so the intended trackback does not appear
          near the comments on the entry. Spam prevention and comment moderation are also important
          features to include in your analysis. </p><p>If you need to design a theme for the blog to match your company’s brand, you also want
          to study the ease with which you can modify the templates yourself or contract for visual
          design work on a particular blog platform.</p><p>The basic expectations that readers have for a blog are comments, subscriptions, and easy
          linking to individual entries. Without a subscription system, like an RSS or Atom feed, a
          website cannot be a blog. </p></body></subsection>