<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e267"><title>Integrating user content into your user assistance</title><body><p><i>Mashup</i>
        <indexterm>content<indexterm>integrating</indexterm></indexterm>typically refers to websites
        or applications that combine data from different sources in new ways. You could think of
        integration of user contributions into your <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>creating from
            wiki pages</indexterm></indexterm>user assistance as a mashup in itself. An example of a
          <indexterm>content<indexterm>combining</indexterm></indexterm>mashup that could be used in
          <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>mashups in</indexterm></indexterm>user assistance is a
          <indexterm>wikislices</indexterm><indexterm>wikis<indexterm>slicing</indexterm></indexterm><i>wikislice</i>, which repurposes a part of a <indexterm>content<indexterm>wiki</indexterm></indexterm>wiki as an ebook<indexterm>ebooks
          (PDF)</indexterm> (PDF<indexterm>PDF, as wiki output</indexterm>) or in an online help
        system. A wikislice is a selected cross-section of a wiki, created by wiki editors
        selectively extracting content on a particular group of articles for different audiences or
        deliverables. The sample wikislices on Wikipedia<fn>
          <p> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:WikiProject_Wikislice </p>
        </fn> contain content related to mathematics, chemistry, and physics, to name a few
        subjects. A wikislice can be downloaded to consume offline, so an Internet connection is not
        necessary once the content is local. And because the wikislice can be styled differently
        from the wiki as a whole, it can benefit from a more readable format, and its content can be
        more easily digestible and organized than the vast expanse of a well-populated wiki. </p><p>A project called <indexterm>InfoSlicer</indexterm>InfoSlicer<fn>
          <p> http://activities.sugarlabs.org/en-US/sugar/addon/4042</p>
        </fn> is housed on the <indexterm>open source<indexterm>InfoSlicer</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>open source<indexterm>SugarLabs</indexterm></indexterm>SugarLabs website, host site for the developers of the
          <indexterm>Sugar learning platform</indexterm>Sugar learning platform. A team created
        InfoSlicer to help teachers create curriculum by downloading and re-mixing Wikipedia
        articles. For example, if a teacher wants to teach students about the African continent,
        they can download articles about animals, clothing, civil structures, and traditions that
        are native to countries in Africa, then combine them into one set of articles. The Darwin
        Information Typing Architecture (DITA) is the technology that combines the data since the
        underlying organization layer is a DITA map structure.</p><p>InfoSlicer for creating wikislices</p><p>To use some slice of a wiki as part of your online help system, you could set up a plug-in
        that queries the wiki’s database or source content for specific articles at specific
          publishing<indexterm>publishing<indexterm>wiki content</indexterm></indexterm> times. You
        need to ensure that the <indexterm>communities<indexterm>content contributed
          by</indexterm></indexterm>community would welcome such remixes of their contributed
        content, and that the wiki content licensing allows you to republish the content as part of
        your static user assistance system. </p><p>Following are tools and techniques that can enable a mashup of wiki<indexterm>wikis<indexterm>exporting content</indexterm></indexterm> and user assistance:</p><ul><li><indexterm>MWDumper</indexterm>MWDumper, available at download.wikimedia.org/tools, is a
          tool that extracts sets of pages from a <indexterm>MediaWiki<indexterm>exporting
              from</indexterm></indexterm>MediaWiki dump file. You write your own filters to ensure
          you get the pages you want. Your information architecture should use certain templates
          that you would pre-select as the topics to be filtered and exported from MediaWiki.
          Prerequisites are the Java SDK and access to the database running the MediaWiki
          installation.</li><li>You can use a Special:Export box for MediaWiki pages that enables you to export a set of
          pages based on a category name. On any MediaWiki installation, you can enter the root
          domain URL plus /Sple, go to http://www.wikihow.com/Special:Export and enter Work-World as
          the category. You’ll get a list of the subcategories. Select the options and save the
          file. You can then download the resulting XML file.</li><li>If the structure of the content is easily determined (such as a heading followed by only
          paragraph text), you might consider screen-scraping, which can be done with scripting
          programs. For more complex topics, such as tasks with embedded graphics, this approach may
          not work well because it is difficult to capture multiple embedded files with a screen
          scraping process.</li><li>You can also do direct database calls to the wiki database layer. There is a connection
          that allows users to use Microsoft Word to edit the wiki database layer directly using a
          subset of DITA<indexterm>DITA</indexterm> markup tags.</li></ul><p>If you’re thinking about mashing up your wiki content with your user assistance content,
        consider the following guidelines:</p><ul><li>Ensure that the content is licensed for use in a new deliverable. <indexterm>Creative
            Commons license</indexterm>Creative Commons licenses allow for share and share alike,
          meaning that anything created from your shared content must also be shared content itself.
          The ramification of choosing content with this license is that your resulting content also
          has to be shareable. You would also have to attribute the source. GNU Public License has
          more documentation-friendly terms in it, but it requires that resulting content be
          licensed with the same terms. </li><li>Design the wiki with specific tags in mind for collection. Let wiki contributors know
          that articles tagged in a certain way will be incorporated into the online help.</li><li>Query the database for categories, specific tags, or templates, and create a
            DITA<indexterm>DITA</indexterm> map or similar structure for re-assembling the
          content.</li><li>Using a DITA<indexterm>DITA</indexterm> map or similar structure as a query, get the
          content out of the wiki database, and then turn it into HTML files (or whatever format is
          needed by the user assistance/help authoring tool). Import files into the help authoring
          tool and recompile the help. </li></ul><p>Other ways to integrate user content into your user assistance include using
          screencasts<indexterm>screencasts</indexterm> created by users, searching Google for the
        most helpful troubleshooting articles related to your product and asking permission to
        re-post those, and incorporating wiki articles with the author’s permission and proper
        licensing agreements in place. These suggestions are just a few techniques that might work
        for your content. </p></body></subsection>