<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e406"><title>Introducing comment and feedback systems in user assistance</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>comments<indexterm>enabling</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>enabling</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p><indexterm>help, online<indexterm>comments in</indexterm></indexterm>Help authoring tools
          provide user feedback tools right inside of the topics that you author with the tool. Even
          a simple link to an email address on each help page so that readers can send email to a
          centralized mailbox in the department gives your readers a way to give feedback. If you
          want to structure the feedback, add a web form with specific fields to be filled out
          before a reader can send it. The <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>feedback
              tools</indexterm></indexterm>feedback mechanism can send the form via <indexterm>email<indexterm>using for customer feedback</indexterm></indexterm>email. Google
          Forms can populate a Google Spreadsheet with results even as the responses are still
          coming in. Comments and feedback systems can be incorporated into many online help
          outputs. Jive Software and JS-Kit are two such offerings. Also, be sure you can track on
          which pages people are choosing to initiate the comment or response mechanism of your
          choice. </p><p>You may find ways to discover what your readers are doing without requiring their
          participation to do so, like Will Hill’s “read-wear” phrase and concept discussed in
          Chapter 6.<fn>
            <p> http://www.useit.com/alertbox/participation_inequality.html</p>
          </fn></p></body></subsection>