<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e143"><title>Continuity of posts</title><body><p>When I first proposed that I start a blog for BMC Software, my role was writing solutions
          documentation for combinations of products that solved specific business needs. My
          proposal was accepted immediately because of the type of customer we were trying to reach
          with our particular type of writing assignments. Blogging about my experiences while I
          learned about ITIL (the IT (Information Technology) Infrastructure Library) and Business
          Service Management would help others learn with me. This type of “learn with me” message
          was a good match for the blog medium. </p><p>Before writing the proposal, I walked across to a fellow technical writer’s office who I
          knew was a blogger with a decent following and asked her, how many posts a week would I
          need to promise in order to keep a set of readers? She said two a week at a minimum with
          three a week being ideal. I wrote into the proposal that I would write a minimum of two
          posts a week which would be about four hours or ten percent of my time. I kept that
          schedule up, aiming for a Tuesday and Thursday post, and was one of the more prolific
          bloggers on the site. A few months after launching talk.bmc.com, they instituted a policy
          that you had to have at least one blog update every two months or your blog would be taken
          off the site. This type of requirement is a good idea for corporate sites that want
          committed bloggers and dynamic content.</p><p>My initial work in blogging was internal to BMC Software, which limited my potential
          readers, but helped me focus my audience. I could practice my voice and write limited
          topics while finding what I liked about blogging and where the rewards might be so that I
          could justify the time and effort I was investing. I learned about post and commenting
          frequency, where comments came from, how to respond, and how to grow readership. </p><p>After getting comfortable with and learning from my internal blog experience, I next
          began blogging externally on the talk.bmc.com site, using the Plone engine already set up
          for us. Because <indexterm>moderation<indexterm>blog
          comments</indexterm></indexterm>comments were moderated by other BMC staffers, I did not
          have to worry about spam deletion and comment moderation; I could focus on researching and
          writing entries. If your company offers any blogging platform, I highly recommend that you
          take an experimental path for learning about blogging and determining if there is a return
          on investment<indexterm>return on investment (ROI)<indexterm>blogging</indexterm></indexterm> (or <indexterm>reach and influence (R and
            I)</indexterm>Reach and Influence) equation that will work for your blogging
          efforts.</p><p>If you want to take a break from blogging but still have fresh blog posts on your site,
          you could write posts ahead of time and set them for a publish date in the future. If you
          can’t take the time to get that far ahead in publishing you can also ask for <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>guest contributors</indexterm></indexterm>guest posts. This technique
          works well for planned extended leaves such as maternity leave or for avoiding burnout. In
          my case, when I was out raising babies, I wanted the voice to be genuine rather than some
          sort of newsletter publishing while I was unavailable for blog comments and so on. So in
          planning for my leave, I wrote to about twenty of my colleagues and asked them to write a
          blog entry about a very specific topic, selecting ones that I knew were interesting to
          them or that they had written email messages about previously. I managed to get about ten
          posts this way. I introduced each post with a short introduction to the guest blogger and
          a note to let the reader know that I was on an extended leave. The supportive talk.bmc.com
          team published them for me on a weekly schedule. This technique proved to be an effective
          bridge of content, and I did not lose readership during that time.</p></body></subsection>