<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e174"><title>Blog examples</title><body><p>National Instruments’ “<indexterm>blogs, examples<indexterm>technically speaking
              (National Instruments)</indexterm></indexterm>technically speaking” blog</p><p> shows a group blog written by the technical writers at <indexterm>blogs,
              examples<indexterm>National Instruments</indexterm></indexterm>National Instruments
          that offers customers a view into the daily life of a technical writer. It includes a
          website that provides stories of the daily work done at National Instruments. Some of
          these technical writers worked in Shanghai for a year or so, as US employees, which
          offered an overseas perspective on their daily work.</p><p>lvtechspeak.blogspot.com</p><p>Embarcadero: “CodeGear Information Development” blog</p><p>Direct <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>joining</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>blogs, examples<indexterm>Embarcadero</indexterm></indexterm>conversations are likely
          to occur between bloggers who are online help writers and their audience. An excellent
          example of such a <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>with customers,
            examples</indexterm></indexterm>conversation occurred between Dee Elling, a technical
          publication manager at Borland, and her group of Delphi programmers when she posted a
          “Help on Help” blog entry (). Dee has bravely and calmly answered their <indexterm>comments<indexterm>on blog posts</indexterm></indexterm>questions, reminding them
          that their priorities are the same. She has built a bridge to ensure customers that she
          hears their concerns about a lack of examples. She is participating in online
          conversations. She says that some of the more abrasive responses are caused by pent-up
          frustration over a long-ago acquisition of her product, which created a heartbreak in the
          community that still resonates with members today.</p><p>blogs.embarcadero.com/deeelling</p><p><indexterm>Atlassian Confluence</indexterm>Atlassian Confluence<indexterm>Confluence</indexterm>: A technical writer’s blog </p><p><indexterm>conversations<indexterm>with customers,
          examples</indexterm></indexterm>Customers seeking technical support for a
            Confluence<indexterm>Confluence</indexterm> product have commented on Sarah <indexterm>Maddox, Sarah</indexterm>Maddox’s blog shown in . They know that she is a technical
          writer at Confluence, and they have come to expect a quicker response from her
          personal/professional blog than from other traditional channels. And sure enough, she
          delivers on their expectations. </p><p>ffeathers.<indexterm>blogs, examples<indexterm>ffeathers - a technical writer's
              blog</indexterm></indexterm>wordpress.com</p></body></subsection>