<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="basictables">
 <title>Long Table</title>
 <shortdesc>This topic has examples of a simpletable and of a complex table.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
   <p>This table is from the DITA 1.2 spec.</p>

   <table>
    <title>Description of domain modules</title>
    <desc><data name="d4p_datatable">
         <data name="activate">1</data>
         <data name="options">
          <data name="searching">true</data>
          <data name="ordering">true</data>
         </data>
      </data>
    </desc>
    <tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="8*"/><colspec
     colname="col2" colwidth="22*"/>
     <thead>
      <row valign="bottom">
       <entry colname="col1">Domains</entry>
       <entry colname="col2">Purpose</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry colname="col1">Indexing domain</entry>
       <entry colname="col2">The indexing domain provides several new elements
        for use with                 indexing. The new elements allow authors
        to define "See" and "See also" references,                 and to
        override the default sort order for a term. </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry colname="col1">Highlight domain</entry>
       <entry colname="col2">The typographic elements are used to highlight
        text with styles                 (such as bold, italic, and monospace).
        Never use these elements when a semantically                 specific
        element is available. These elements are not intended for use by 
        specializers, and are intended solely for use by authors
        when no semantically                 appropriate element is available
        and a formatting effect is required.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry colname="col1">Programming domain</entry>
       <entry colname="col2">The programming domain elements are used to
        define the syntax                 and to give examples of programming
        languages. </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry colname="col1">Software domain</entry>
       <entry colname="col2">The software domain elements are used to describe
        the operation                 of a software program. </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry colname="col1">UI domain</entry>
       <entry colname="col2">The user interface domain elements are used
        to describe the user                 interface of a software program. </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry colname="col1">Utilities domain</entry>
       <entry colname="col2">The utilities domain elements represent common
        features of a                 language that may not necessarily be
        semantic, such as image maps.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry colname="col1">Map Group domain</entry>
       <entry colname="col2">The mapgroup domain elements define, group,
        or reference                 content. </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry colname="col1">xNAL domain</entry>
       <entry colname="col2">The xNAL domain elements represent a subset
        of the Extensible                 Name and Address Standard. The domain
        can be included in any topic type or map,                 although
        the implementations provided by OASIS only include it in the bookmap
        specialization. It is used to encode information about
        the author or authors of DITA                 information. </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Hazard Statement domain </entry>
       <entry>The hazard statement domain elements represent labeling for
        product safety                 hazards that readers need to be aware
        of. The domain can be included in any topic                 type or
        map. Its elements are used to inform readers about potential hazards,
        consequences, and avoidance strategies </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Machine Industry domain</entry>
       <entry>The machine-industry task domain contains elements for use
        describing tasks                 that involve machines or other pieces
        of hardware. </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Delay Resolution domain</entry>
       <entry>The delayed conref resolution domain provides several elements
        for use when                 using DITA in situations that enable
        delayed or run time resolution of conref. The                 elements
        allow users to resolve some conref values statically, while delaying
        others                 for later resolution. </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Abbreviate domain</entry>
       <entry>The abbreviate domain element is used to represent a reference
        to a term that                 may appear in an abbreviated form (often
        an acronym). </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Glossref domain</entry>
       <entry>The glossref domain elements are convenience elements that
        are used to                 reference glossary topics or to reference
        multiple topics in a single collection.               </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Classify domain</entry>
       <entry>The classification domain elements are used to identify subjects
        covered by the                 content </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Learning domain</entry>
       <entry>The learning domain elements represent the base elements that
        are used to                 create learning and training content.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Learning Interaction Base domain</entry>
       <entry>The learning interaction base domain defines an "abstract"
        base type for all                 learning assessments. </entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Learning Map domain</entry>
       <entry>The learning and training map domain organizes groups of topics
        as learning                 objects</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>Learning Metadata domain</entry>
       <entry>The learning and training metadata domain describes specific
        characteristics of                 the learning content. </entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </table>
   <p>This is text following the table.</p>
 
 
 </conbody>
 
</concept>
