<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_u5b_dlw_pm">
    <title>Create a customization plugin</title>
    <shortdesc>In order to develop a new theme, you need to develop a customization plugin.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>In this tutorial, we will do a minimal implementation of the <xref
                    keyref="foundation"/> using the html5 plugin.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Create a customization plugin</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <p>Using the command line, run:</p>
                    <codeblock>
                        ant -f plugins/net.sourceforge.dita4publishers.utils
                    </codeblock>
                    <p>In this order, choose the following options:
                      <ul>
                        <li>Type choice 1, then press enter,</li>
                        <li><b>Plugin's domain:</b> leave as is and press enter,</li>
                        <li><b>Plugin's name:</b> leave as is and press enter,</li>
                        <li><b>Plugin's transtype:</b> type <q>foundation</q> and press enter,</li>
                        <li><b>Plugin's theme:</b> leaave as is</li>                     
                      </ul>
                    </p>
                </stepxmp>
                <stepresult>
                    The utility will create a complete customization plugin
                </stepresult>
            </step>
            
            <step>
                <cmd>Run the integrator <cmdname>ant -f integrator.xml</cmdname></cmd>
            </step>
            
            <step importance="optional">
                <cmd>Try to build the documentation with the new transtype by running <codeph>ant -Dargs.input=samples/sequence.ditamap -Doutput.dir=out/garage -Dtranstype=foundation</codeph></cmd>
            </step>
            
            <step>
                <cmd>Download the <xref keyref="foundation"/>, and extract it in the <filepath>net.sourceforge.dita4publishers.html5.foundation/theme/html5-foundation/</filepath> directory</cmd>
                <tutorialinfo>
                    This directory should contains all the css and javascript your need for your project.                   
                </tutorialinfo>
            </step>
            
            <step>
                <cmd>Edit the <filepath>config.xml</filepath> file located in the
                        <filepath>net.sourceforge.dita4publishers.html5.foundation/theme/html5-foundation/</filepath>
                    directory. The structure allows you specify how you want the css and javascript
                    builded for you documentation. According to the Foundation documentation, a
                    foundation project requires only the foundation.css file and 3 scripts. The
                    html5 plugins allows to concatenate this 3 scripts into a single file (this will
                    reduces the number of http connections required per page).</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <codeblock>
  &lt;tag&gt;
    &lt;name&gt;link&lt;/name&gt;
    &lt;output&gt;yes&lt;/output&gt;
    &lt;filename&gt;style.css&lt;/filename&gt;
    &lt;prefix&gt;&lt;/prefix&gt;
    &lt;suffix&gt;&lt;/suffix&gt;
    &lt;attributes&gt;
        &lt;rel&gt;stylesheet&lt;/rel&gt;
        &lt;type&gt;text/css&lt;/type&gt;
        &lt;media&gt;screen, projection&lt;/media&gt;
    &lt;/attributes&gt;
    &lt;value&gt;&lt;/value&gt;
    &lt;source&gt;
      &lt;file path="themes/html5-foundation/css/foundation.css" /&gt;
    &lt;/source&gt;
  &lt;/tag&gt;


  &lt;tag&gt;
    &lt;name&gt;script&lt;/name&gt;
    &lt;output&gt;yes&lt;/output&gt;
    &lt;filename&gt;script.js&lt;/filename&gt;
    &lt;prefix&gt;&lt;/prefix&gt;
    &lt;suffix&gt;&lt;/suffix&gt;
    &lt;attributes&gt;
        &lt;type&gt;text/javascript&lt;/type&gt;
    &lt;/attributes&gt;
    &lt;value&gt;&lt;/value&gt;
    &lt;source&gt;
      &lt;file path="themes/html5-foundation/js/modernizr.js" /&gt;
      &lt;file path="themes/html5-foundation/js/jquery.js" /&gt;
      &lt;file path="themes/html5-foundation/js/foundation.min.js" /&gt;
    &lt;/source&gt;
  &lt;/tag&gt;
                                                   
                    </codeblock>
                </stepxmp>
                <stepresult>
                    At this step, you already have processed all the required css and files for the plugin.
                </stepresult>
            </step>
            
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
