<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:topic" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="d1e56"><title>1.1 Philosophy</title><body><p>
We will not dwell on philosophy but merely list some features we hope to encorporate in the course.
<br/>
</p><p>
<b>Philosophy of the Course</b>
</p><p>
  1. Use computers as much as possible.
<br/>
  2. Use spreadsheets.
<br/>
  3. Encourage active learning rather than passive; try to make you think about the material.
<br/>
  4. Integrate one variable calculus into multivariable calculus so that they are treated together rather than one after the other.
<br/>
  5. Ask you to submit homework electronically via email to me when appropriate.
<br/>
  6. Make you redo homework until it is correct.
<br/>
  7. Feedback an important part of required activity.
</p><p>
<b>Philosophy of Learning</b>
</p><p>
  1. Amount learned is proportional to time put in.
<br/>
  2. Best way to learn is to figure out ideas yourself or teach them to someone else.
<br/>
  3. Second best is to do so with hints from others like your friends or us.
<br/>
  4. Third best is to get the ideas from reading; but pause in your reading to think about them.
<br/>
  5. Fourth best: unacceptable: don't get them at all.
<br/>
  6. The object of a lecture is not so much to inform you of important facts, but rather to stimulate you to try to learn about some concept.
<br/>
  7. The object of the course is to empower you to use the concepts of calculus in any context.
</p></body></topic>