<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_fct_vhq_q4">
 <title>Changed Behaviours</title>
 <shortdesc>This plugin does not always behaves the same way than others DITA OT
  plugins.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>This plugin is an attempt to bring more capabilities to do Web development into the DITA OT. It
   has been design to allows the creations of Themes (you might name this Skins). </p>
  
  <p>Below are the list of arguments for which the behavior change using this plugin.</p>
  <section>
   <title>Ant parameters: changed behaviors</title>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>args.cssroot</dt>
     <dd>The <varname>args.cssroot</varname> is used to choose a theme instead of a css. The default theme is
      dita-d4p-classic. If you run a build with args.cssroot=my-custom-theme, the plugin will try to
      fetch the my-custom-theme if it exists in the </dd>
    </dlentry>
    
    <dlentry>
     <dt>args.debug</dt>
     <dd>Once set to yes <varname>args.debug</varname>, the generated HTML will contains a reference to each script and style referenced in the theme configuration (config.xml).
      A copy of the library will be send to the ouput directory. This allows a developper to work on each file individually, write and debug code. 
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    
    <dlentry>
     <dt>args.hdf</dt>
     <dd>This property is not supported yet but will be in a future release.
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    
    <dlentry>
     <dt>args.hdr</dt>
     <dd>This property is not supported yet but will be in a future release.
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
       
   </dl>
  </section>
  
  <section>
   <title>Ant parameters: not supported</title>
   <p>Theses properties are ignored since the system has a built-in theme mechanism.</p>
   <ul>
    <li>args.copycss</li>
    <li>args.css</li>
    <li>args.csspath</li>
   </ul>
  </section>
  
  

 </conbody>
</concept>
