<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_phf_dyd_qh">
 <title>Running the HTML5 Plugin</title>
  <!-- CW capitalized HTML5 24/03/2014 -->
 <shortdesc>The HTML5 plugin can run as a regular DITA-OT plugin.</shortdesc>
  <!-- CW capitalized HTML5 and Plugin, changed 'can be' to 'can' 24/03/2014 -->
 <conbody>
  <p>To run the HTML5 plugin, you must be familiar with the process of running the DITA-OT (refer to the
        <xref keyref="dita-ot-doc"/> for more details). The transtype is d4p-html5 to prevent conflict with the HTML5
      transtype, available in DITA-OT version 2.0.</p>
   <!-- CW Added capitalized HTML5. Added parentheses to 'Refer to the..' rather than be a separate sentence. Removed 'the' pre-fix on DITA-OT versions.  24/03/2014 -->
  <p>The plugin works with DITA-OT versions 1.7.x and prior.</p>
  
  <p>The plugin uses ant parameters similar to those used for the XHTML transform. Some parameters
      available for the xhtml transform are not currently supported in the HTML5 plugin. For a
      complete list of available properties, consult the reference material.<draft-comment
        author="Jim">"reference material" needs clearer identification, and a
        link.</draft-comment></p> 
   <draft-comment
     author="CW">What if people are unfamiliar with the XHMTL transform? Link required? </draft-comment>
   <!-- CW capitalized HTML5 and XHTML, added 'used' 24/03/2014 -->
  <section>
   <title>Running DITA-OT from Ant</title>
   <p>Execute the usual command using HTML5 as the transtype.</p>
    <!-- CW capitalized HTML5 24/03/2014 -->
    <draft-comment author="CW">What is the usual command? Would be better to name it.</draft-comment>
       <codeblock><data name="language" value="bash"/>
    ant -Dargs.input=samples/hierarchy.ditamap 
    -Doutput.dir=out/garage/html5 
    -Dtranstype=d4p-html5</codeblock>   
  </section>
  
  <section>
   <title>Running DITA-OT from a Command-Line Tool</title>
    <!-- CW added 'a', capitalized Command-Line and Tool 24/03/2014 -->
    <draft-comment author="CW">Introductory statement needed?</draft-comment>
   <codeblock><data name="language" value="bash"/>

    java -jar lib/dost.jar 
    /i:samples/hierarchy.ditamap 
    /outdir:out/garage/html5 
    /transtype:d4p-html5</codeblock>  
  </section>
  
 
 </conbody>
</concept>
