<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e629"><title>Corporate policies for social sites</title><body><p>Read your corporate blogging<indexterm>blogging<indexterm>policy</indexterm></indexterm>
          policy or public discourse policy or <indexterm>social networking<indexterm>policies</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>social media<indexterm>policies</indexterm></indexterm>social networking policy. If your company does not
          have such policies, thoroughly research the examples from IBM and <indexterm>policies,
            social computing<indexterm>Sun Microsystems</indexterm></indexterm>Sun<indexterm>Sun
              Microsystems<indexterm>social computing policy</indexterm></indexterm>, and consider
          whether they fit your corporate culture and how you might adjust them as needed. </p><p><indexterm>IBM<indexterm>social computing policy</indexterm></indexterm>IBM has a
            <indexterm>policies, social computing<indexterm>following</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>policies, social computing<indexterm>IBM</indexterm></indexterm>policy<fn>
            <p> http://www.ibm.com/blogs/zz/en/guidelines.html</p>
          </fn> that is considered to be the “gold standard” for these types of guidelines for
          employees. Sun is a known leader in this area and their policy<fn>
            <p> http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/media/blogs/policy.html</p>
          </fn> has been adapted and referenced for years. For non-profit organizations, Appendix B
          contains the policy for online discussion from Easter Seals which encompasses many
          different types of online publishing areas.<fn>
            <p> http://beth.typepad.com/beths_blog/2008/04/nonprofit-blogg.html</p>
          </fn></p><p>These policies have many commonalities for trust-worthy, valuable online representation.
          The policies give you advice like: be genuine, always identify yourself and the company
          you represent, be professional, talk about what you know, cite sources and acknowledge
          others’ contributions, obey copyright laws, offer value, don’t pick fights, and respect
          your audience. All of these policies ask that the person abide by the policy and use good
          judgement in all their online interactions. </p><p>Additionally, study your corporate culture to determine how much openness and
          transparency already exist. Look for areas where transparency and openness are rewarded
          and not feared. Find ways to mitigate the risks that you may take by attempting
          transparency in your communications.</p><p>Do not contribute if your contribution could be interpreted as interrupting “real” work
          (such as posting long responses during work hours). </p></body></subsection>