<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e737"><title>Agile product development and the agile writer</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>Agile development</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p>What development method does your team use? Agile development refers to a group of
          software development methods that incorporate user involvement into development. On an
          Agile team you use time-boxed iterations to deliver small features of potentially
          shippable software at the end of each iteration. Central to many Agile shops are Scrum
          project management and self-organizing teams with cross-functional team members, including
          technical writers embedded on development teams. The way software is developed usually
            influence<indexterm>influence, measuring</indexterm>s the way that the technical
          publications team works, and Agile methods may lead to bigger changes than most. If you
          work in an Agile development environment, however, your team has probably already had to
          adjust the publication release cycles, information development methods, and the amount of
          documentation that is promised with each release, depending on the staffing challenges
          that you face because of Agile adaptations. </p><p>Sarah <indexterm>Maddox, Sarah</indexterm>Maddox has two wonderful blog posts in which
          she discusses her typical day as a technical writer working on an Agile
            development<indexterm>development</indexterm> team.<fn>
            <p> http://ffeathers.wordpress.com/2008/01/20/the-agile-technical-writer/,
              http://ffeathers.wordpress.com/2008/01/26/the-agile-technical-writer-ii/</p>
          </fn> Much of her work involves IM<indexterm>IM (Instant Messaging)</indexterm>
          conversations and editing in a wiki<indexterm>wikis<indexterm>in Agile development
              process</indexterm></indexterm> environment, using the wiki product that she documents
          as the documentation deliverable. </p><p>Mike <indexterm>Wethington, Mike</indexterm>Wethington, a technical publications manager
          and scrum master at Troux Technologies, says that the days are gone of introverted
          technical writers expecting to be handed specifications and isolate themselves while they
          write the documentation. Agile methods require internal team communication that resembles
          a conversation, with daily team standup meetings and collaboration with team members on
          writing tasks. The tools of the social web are critical to the speed, efficiency, and
          focus that a disciplined Agile team must have in order to succeed.</p></body></subsection>