<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e841"><title>Time to allocate for these efforts</title><body><p>All questions about using <indexterm>social media<indexterm>time
            commitment</indexterm></indexterm>social media technologies distill to the single
          question, “How much time does all this take?” Beth Kanter has some ideas. She says that
          each rung of the ladder involves more and more time. Expect to allocate 5 hours a week to
          listen, 10 hours a week to participate, and 20 hours a week to provide a platform for
          sharing content. For community <indexterm>communities<indexterm>growing</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>communities<indexterm>building</indexterm></indexterm>building,
          expect the tasks to consume at least 25 hours of a team’s work week. You likely don’t need
          to add the listening hours to the participating hours once you are building a community,
          though if each of those tasks remains important and gives good return on the time spent,
          then the time adds up to sixty hours a week. These time estimates may add up so that you
          realize you need more than one person assigned to this type of effort. In short, these
          tasks can easily become a full time job. The size and growth rate of the community will
          also dictate the number of hours needed to address their needs. Compare the time needed to
          welcome two or three people to an online community per day to welcoming over one hundred
          new members each day. </p></body></subsection>