<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e10"><title>Challenges and opportunities</title><body><p>Once you get enthusiastic about a particular social networking tool or medium, you may find
        that you spend an inordinate amount of time on the site or reviewing the tools used for the
        site. Be aware of your priorities, and be cautious of portraying a tool as a time-wasting,
        productivity-sucking black hole before others can give it a chance. Remember that your
        online <indexterm>presence, online</indexterm>presence records the amount of time and the
        time of day that you work with a tool. You can avoid too much of a good thing if you’re
        smart about your time allocation. You might need to participate in an online community after
        normal business hours to ensure that the community trusts you to do your “real” job first
        and experimentation second.</p><p>It’s important to find a balance between allowing an individual’s authentic voice to speak
        on behalf of an organization and the requirements of institutional messaging and <indexterm>brands<indexterm>preserving</indexterm></indexterm>brand preservation. Be sure to
        follow all related corporate <indexterm>policies, social computing<indexterm>following</indexterm></indexterm>policies and study the messaging that your company
        prefers to maintain. </p><p>It’s also possible that you are ahead of the curve and need to help others see ways to
        apply social technologies for the company. You could get involved in a community related to
        personal interests outside of work to understand how social technologies can be applied
        before attempting to apply what you’ve learned at work. This approach works well especially
        if your organization is extra-conservative or if there is no demand for content with social
        connections yet for your company.</p><p>What about the ubiquitous argument, “Sorry, but we just don’t have the resources for this
        type of project”? You might need to barter for resources or entice someone’s time and skills
        off the clock. Think of the reasons that people are motivated to contribute to a project,
        such as recognition or respect, and see what you can offer in return. Also realize that if
        the resources truly are not available but you think you can save time and money with social
        or community content<indexterm>community-generated content<indexterm>contributions
            to</indexterm></indexterm>, you need to have a strategy and be able to prove return on
        the investment in time and money. </p><p>Return on <indexterm>return on investment (ROI)<indexterm>proving</indexterm></indexterm>investment<indexterm>return on investment (ROI)<indexterm>measuring</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>return on investment (ROI)<indexterm>content development</indexterm></indexterm> is notoriously hard to measure because of
        the difficulty in determining what to measure and how to measure. </p></body></subsection>