<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e1218"><title>Recruiting others by proving the value</title><body><p>Once you have a few success stories to tell, share them with anyone who shows an
          interest. This <indexterm>storytelling</indexterm>storytelling is at the heart of a
          grassroots movement. These blog entries and interviews with wiki maintainers are examples
          of storytelling that you can do within your organization.</p><p>At the “Social Media Metrics, Where are they?” panel discussion at SXSW Interactive in
          March 2008, Ynema Mangum presented a chart showing the CXO “X-factor” for influential
            <indexterm>metrics<indexterm>influential for business</indexterm></indexterm>metrics for
          each area of a large business, where the X might be replaced by Operations (COO),
          Technology (CTO), Finance (CFO), and so forth. The X-factor is their business area of
          expertise and indicates their role in the company.</p><p>Once you have determined what you’d like to achieve, consider the direction of the
          conversation and how many participants it will have. Sarah <indexterm>O’Keefe,
            Sarah</indexterm>O’Keefe at Scriptorium Publishing has an excellent white paper titled
          “Friend or Foe? Web 2.0 in Technical Communication”<fn>
            <p> http://www.scriptorium.com/whitepapers/web2/</p>
          </fn> that describes the one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many, and many-to-one
          directional communication occurring today.</p><p>If you want to encourage generated content, start slowly. You might seek business
          objectives at different levels, depending on your goals and the business areas you aim to
          influence.</p></body></subsection>