<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e1174"><title>Determining fit in the organization and community</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>communities<indexterm>content contributed by</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content contributed by</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p>You should try to match your contribution with your role in your company. For example, if
          you generally add value by decreasing customer support calls, then look to the support
          communities for ideas. If you assist the services or field personnel in getting their jobs
          done, find a way to tap into that community base. If your documentation is a sales-winning
          essential part of the product, get yourself close to the sales and marketing department’s
          conversations with customers. </p><p><indexterm>conversations<indexterm>joining</indexterm></indexterm>Matching up your
          strengths and experience to the conversations helps you avoid stepping on toes or
          stumbling into conversations where you do not have the tools, background, or correct
          messaging to deal with the situation correctly. Other departments may be able to help if a
          customer becomes angry or you witness an outburst between two community members. Clay
            <indexterm>Shirky, Clay</indexterm>Shirky has an excellent essay titled “Group as User:
          Flaming and the Design of Social Software” that describes cooling-off techniques, rating,
          karma, and ways to harness the “performance” effect for good purposes instead of only
          negative distractions. But brand protection, public relations, and crisis communications
          are likely better left to a professional trained in those areas, and you should find
          someone at your company who can help in those areas. You should also be ready to escalate
          the information to the right group when you observe a conversation that another
          organization within your company should handle.</p></body></subsection>