<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e208"><title>Building a strategic plan for conversation and community integration</title><body><p>As with all technical documentation projects, you should plan before implementing any
        changes to your documentation or approach. However, when trying out social media tools, you
        need to be willing to spend time experimenting. Grassroots<indexterm>grassroots
          efforts</indexterm> efforts that fly under management<indexterm>management
          buy-in</indexterm>’s radar for a while might give you the biggest payback. </p><p>Beth Kanter<indexterm>Kanter, Beth</indexterm>, a social media consultant to non-profits,
        describes participation in social media as having five <indexterm>social media<indexterm>phases for implementing</indexterm></indexterm>phases: listen, participate, generate
        buzz, share content, and create community.<fn>
          <p> http://beth.typepad.com/beths_blog/2008/10/how-much-time-d.html</p>
        </fn> A simplification for our approach involves four phases: </p><ul><li>First, listen. </li><li>Second, participate in the conversations (and continue to listen). </li><li>Third, share content.</li><li>Fourth, lead the way by offering a platform for conversations to occur.</li></ul><p>A conversation enabler will work best in the first two phases. A conversation instigator
        can work in all the phases. I believe this phased approach yields better results than
        jumping straight to offering a platform. You may notice that I skipped over <indexterm>Kanter, Beth</indexterm>Beth Kanter’s third phase where she suggests that you should
        generate buzz. I don’t think that generating buzz or media attention is necessarily the
        realm of <indexterm>technical documentation<indexterm>integrating with community-based
            content</indexterm></indexterm>technical documentation, though it might be if you’re a
        lone writer bridging the gap in technical marketing documentation. </p></body></subsection>