<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e514"><title>Determining if your customers would like a conversation </title><body><p>Look at the specific problems that your technical publications group is trying to solve
          or has had feedback about, and analyze whether applying some of the <indexterm>social
              networking<indexterm>integrating with documentation</indexterm></indexterm>social
          networking or notifications technology would help solve those problems. Customers cannot
          always articulate their needs in specific requests for a certain deliverable like a wiki.
          Keep in mind that the terms “RSS feeds” and “wiki” may not be familiar to your customers.
          If you asked them, “Would you like to know when new items are added to the help system?”,
          they would probably respond positively. Also consider the prospect who is not yet a
          customer. What conversation or community techniques can build relationships that help with
          converting a prospect to a customer?</p><p>Analyze your audience to determine their pain points. Ask questions or conduct a survey,
          and be sure to understand the demographic information. While gender and age are not always
          good indicators of an individual’s behavior online, research indicates that men use
          certain social media tools like <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>user
            demographics</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter differently than women do.<fn>
            <p>
              http://www.iq.harvard.edu/blog/netgov/2009/06/hbs_research_twitter_oligarchy.html</p>
          </fn> Different age groups might have different answers for your survey, or not. A
            <indexterm>surveys</indexterm>survey run by two technical writers at Sun had an audience
            of<indexterm>Sun Microsystems<indexterm>survey for shifting
            priorities</indexterm></indexterm> programmers, most of whom were male. The writers
          wondered if age differences would result in a different “wish list” for video or
            screencasts<indexterm>screencasts</indexterm>. They found that no matter the age, all of
          the programmers wanted pretty much the same thing—examples and a web celebrity of sorts to
          listen to and learn from. Using the information they gained from the survey, the writers
          could provide a business case for shifting their priorities in a release from traditional
          online help to videos and screencasts.</p><p>The book <i>Groundswell</i><indexterm>Groundswell</indexterm> offers a Social <indexterm>Groundswell Social Technographics tool</indexterm>Technographics tool.<fn>
            <p> http://www.forrester.com/Groundswell/profile_tool.html</p>
          </fn> is an <indexterm>communities<indexterm>demographics</indexterm></indexterm>example
          of the results for U.S.-based women aged 35-44.</p><p>Data from Forrester Research Technographics surveys<indexterm>surveys</indexterm></p><p>Creators are at the top of the ladder because they create content such as blog entries or
          videos. Critics are most likely to respond to others on email <indexterm>mailing
              lists<indexterm>contributions to</indexterm></indexterm>lists or <indexterm>forums<indexterm>contributions to</indexterm></indexterm>forums. At the bottom of the
          ladder are Inactives, those who do not create or consume social content. If your study
          shows that many of your customers are Inactives, you may not need <indexterm>social
              media<indexterm>surveys of use</indexterm></indexterm>social media integration to
          serve your customer’s information needs.</p></body></subsection>