<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e586"><title>Determining your role in the conversation</title><body><p>You can ask several questions to help discover if you are an enabler of conversation, an
          instigator, or both. Depending on the number of users of the products that you document,
          there may be a place for the technical writer in the <indexterm>communities<indexterm>participation in</indexterm></indexterm>community. For wiki documentation especially,
          it is important that you become a conversation starter, unless there’s a large community
          base already. Several factors influence<indexterm>influence, measuring</indexterm> this
          determination: </p><ul><li>Is the <indexterm>communities<indexterm>writer's role
            in</indexterm></indexterm>community small, and if so, can you easily become like the
            community members? Or is there a conflict of interest that might prevent you from direct
            communications? </li><li>What <indexterm>communities<indexterm>motivations of</indexterm></indexterm>motivates
            the community to use your product? If community members are passionate about your
            product because they selected it, the conversation may be easy to start and continue. If
            the product was purchased by upper management and implemented by community members, you
            might be more effective as a conversation enabler than a starter/joiner. </li><li>Is the community getting paid to implement the product? If so, will they view your
              presence<indexterm>presence, online</indexterm> as competition? In this type of
            situation, it might be better to enable conversation.</li><li>Has another department in your company started a <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>instigating</indexterm></indexterm>conversation? If other departments internally
            are in fact responsible for responding, be careful about how your involvement might be
            interpreted. Talk to others internally before inserting yourself as a community member
            or you may appear to be strong-arming others. A slow, easy beginning is best, and
            practice and hands-on experience are your most valuable assets. </li></ul><p>Whether you’re enabling a conversation or are part of the conversation, it’s important to
          be professional but also personable and genuine. </p><p>Also expect to face the inevitable negativity or conflict that can occur within a
          community. You should face it, communicate openly, overcome the negative discussions, and
          do not purposely avoid negative situations. </p></body></subsection>