<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e772"><title>Identifying key communicating team members</title><body><p>For those who are interested in being a representative voice for your department, for the
        technical documentation, or for the product itself, determine the methods that team members
        can use to begin <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>joining</indexterm></indexterm>conversations. Each team member should have a consistent,
        professional, and approachable online persona. Search for your first and last name on Google
        and other search engines and try to envision what you represent to customers, both internal
        and external to your company.</p><p>Examine existing community starting points for your customer base. Begin the conversations
        in a non-intimidating manner, such as commenting on blog posts. Always represent yourself
        honestly, and determine your standard disclaimer and when you will apply a disclaimer. For
        example, you need to identify yourself as a corporate representative when the blog post
        addresses a topic specific to your company.</p><p>For some team members, nothing could be more terrifying than losing anonymity while writing
        technical documentation. Because identifying oneself online can have negative consequences,
        do not require this type of involvement as a term of employment for existing employees.
        Writers may want to maintain two personas online, a personal one and a professional one.
        Behind-the-scenes and connector roles do not require the loss of anonymity or privacy. And
        rather than being directly involved in the conversations, writers can facilitate
        conversations and community by incorporating them into the documentation system. </p></body></subsection>