<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e713"><title>Defining business objectives </title><body><p>The book <i>Groundswell</i> discusses a four-step approach to getting corporations into
            <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>business objectives
          of</indexterm></indexterm>conversations: People, Objectives, Strategy, and Technology. I
          believe this approach can apply for technical publications and <indexterm>social
              media<indexterm>alignment with business objectives</indexterm></indexterm>social media
          as well. The business objectives that your department typically aligns with are your
          objectives for any social web exploration as well. I especially appreciate that the
          technology research and decision is the last one in their approach.</p><p>Before you attempt direct conversation with customers or try to enable more
          customer-to-customer interaction, ask yourself what you hope to achieve. Articulate the
          business goals so that you can communicate them to your manager and others. Also, examine
          how realistic your goals are given the time and resources that you have available. Keep in
          mind that you may have to use your own time and resources initially to prove the value of
          your proposal before you can gain the confidence of those who measure business value and
          make decisions. Many of the Groundswell case studies involved a couple of guys and an
          under-the-radar server installation.</p><p>To discover where you might gain business perspectives in different areas, such as
          Operations or Finance, look at the metrics in . </p><p>Leave flex room in your social media business strategies for unintended consequences,
          where a group of users may not want “how to” information coming from a social deliverable,
          perhaps they want reference information that they can add to instead. Or perhaps your
          users are not interested in status updates that answer “What are you doing,” but instead
          want to know “Where are you?”</p></body></subsection>