<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e373"><title>Content sharing phase</title><body><p>The content sharing phase may be as simple to implement as adding a <indexterm>Creative
            Commons license</indexterm>Creative Commons <indexterm>content<indexterm>licensing</indexterm></indexterm>license to your content to allow for share and share
          alike. Licensing your content with a Creating Commons license declares that your content
          is reusable and describes the conditions and circumstances for that reuse. There are
          different licenses available for you (or your legal department at your company) to review.
          Instead of reserving all rights to your documentation, you reserve some rights, but also
          free the content to be used by others. For example, the Adobe help content offered with
          the Technical Communication Suite has a Creative Commons license, Attribution
          Non-Commercial Share Alike, as indicated by this icon:</p><p>On the creativecommons.org web site, you can answer straight forward questions to
          determine the license you want for your content, such as do you want to allow commercial
          uses of your work, do you want to allow modifications of your work (with or without others
          share alike on content created from your work), and the jurisdiction of your license.
          Licensing your content lets you share your content. </p><p>Another way to share your content is to offer an RSS feed that someone could embed in a
          sidebar or another location in a web page. A web service like dapper.net can help you make
          RSS feeds from any web page. </p><p>You can share content by uploading photos or screenshots to a <indexterm>photos</indexterm>photo sharing site such as Flickr, or you could upload videos or
            <indexterm>screencasts</indexterm>screencasts to You Tube or Vimeo. Beyond photos and
          videos, a great example of sharing content is the Autodesk Civil Engineering Community.<fn>
            <p> http://civilcommunity.autodesk.com/content/</p>
          </fn> Users can join the community and download templates, styles or shapes. </p></body></subsection>