<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e173"><title>Instigator or enabler of conversation</title><body><p>An <indexterm>technical documentation<indexterm>integrating with community-based
              content</indexterm></indexterm>instigator provides a starting point for a <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>instigating</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>conversations<indexterm>enabling</indexterm></indexterm>conversation, perhaps by
          communicating a controversial decision or a highly debated strategic choice. A writer in
          an instigator role should know customers’ business needs and be well-connected with those
          he or she plans to talk to online. </p><p>An enabler of conversation understands the underlying concepts of a product or service
          well enough to help others understand those concepts as well. An enabler gives a community
          the authority to make decisions or provides patterns that help a community develop and
          grow. </p><p>Whether you’re an instigator or enabler, you can repeatedly gather knowledge from
            <indexterm>technical documentation<indexterm>benefiting from
            conversation</indexterm></indexterm>communities and conversation, then bring it back and
          incorporate what you’ve learned into the documentation. Ideally you’ll “give back” to the
            <indexterm>content<indexterm>community-generated</indexterm></indexterm>communities that
          provided the knowledge to you by continually improving the content offerings. </p><p>It may seem that an extrovert would be the instigator of conversations in documentation,
          and an introvert would be the enabler of the conversations. Introversion and extroversion
          refer to how a person draws energy—either from an external source such as interaction with
          other people, or from an internal source, such as their own thoughts and imagination.
          However, in the realm of social media, introverts often find online social networking
          provides the right balance of encouragement to reach out along with the ability to turn
          off the stream of constant communication and regroup for a period of time. Therefore, the
          role of an instigator does not need to be reserved for an extrovert. An extroverted
          instigator may not be a good blogger, for example, because good writing often requires
          introspection and reflection. But either personality type can take on either role and do
          the tasks within each role. </p></body></subsection>