<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e860"><title>Measuring conversation effectiveness</title><body><p><indexterm>metrics<indexterm>social media
            implementation</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>metrics<indexterm>blogging
              influence</indexterm></indexterm>Metrics and <indexterm>social media<indexterm>proving
              effectiveness</indexterm></indexterm>social media mix like oil and water with
          interesting lava-lamp-like configurations as a result. In a corporate environment, someone
          has to pay the blogger’s bills or the podcaster’s bandwidth, and more importantly, decide
          that the <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>cost of</indexterm></indexterm>cost of the
          hours spent working on social media efforts is worth giving up other deliverables. So
          effectiveness, return on investment<indexterm>return on investment (ROI)<indexterm>measuring</indexterm></indexterm>, and metrics all come up continually.</p><p>When you are trying to <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>measuring effectiveness
            of</indexterm></indexterm>measure effectiveness, be sure that you are using the right
            <indexterm>metrics<indexterm>Reach and Influence</indexterm></indexterm>metric. For
          example, instead of measuring the <indexterm>return on investment (ROI)<indexterm>blogging</indexterm></indexterm>Return on Investment of <indexterm>evaluation<indexterm>of blog effectiveness</indexterm></indexterm>blogging<indexterm>blogging<indexterm>Reach and Influence</indexterm></indexterm>, try to gauge the
            <indexterm>reach and influence (R and I)</indexterm>Reach and Influence (R and I) of
          blogging. Influence rather than Investment offers measurable analytics to use when
          investigating a blog’s contribution to the bottom line. If you are seeking an independent
          blogger to sponsor or give ads to, you may use these measures. Also, when you analyze your
          corporate blog site and measure effectiveness of corporate bloggers, use these same
          principles. An article on the Marketing Sherpa site<fn>
            <p> http://www.marketingsherpa.com/article.html?ident=30044</p>
          </fn> provides the following factors to use when evaluating and measuring the <indexterm>metrics<indexterm>conversation effectiveness</indexterm></indexterm>effectiveness of
          a blogger’s <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>influence of</indexterm></indexterm>influence:</p><ul><li><indexterm>metrics<indexterm>traffic, blog</indexterm></indexterm>Traffic: Visitors
            and page hits, but don’t trust it alone.</li><li><indexterm>metrics<indexterm>RSS feed
              subscriptions</indexterm></indexterm>RSS<indexterm>RSS (Really Simple
                Syndication)<indexterm>measuring reader loyalty</indexterm></indexterm> feed
            subscriptions: Subscribers measure return visits and may indicate loyalty to the
            blog.</li><li>Inbound links: <indexterm>metrics<indexterm>inbound links</indexterm></indexterm>How
            often do other bloggers or other websites link to this blog?</li><li><indexterm>search<indexterm>measure of blog
              effectiveness</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>search<indexterm>rankings</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>metrics<indexterm>search
                position</indexterm></indexterm>Search position, part one: Keywords for company
            brand and keywords.</li><li>Search position, part two: Keywords for the blogger’s <indexterm>brands<indexterm>in
                search, as a measure of blog influence</indexterm></indexterm>brand (fame
            level).</li><li>Voice: <indexterm>metrics<indexterm>voice</indexterm></indexterm>Does the person
              blogging<indexterm>blogging<indexterm>Reach and Influence</indexterm></indexterm>
            represent the promise of an online experience that you can “hear” and appreciate?</li></ul><p>To these factors, I would add the number and frequency of <indexterm>comments<indexterm>on blog posts</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>comments<indexterm>on blog
              posts</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>blogs<indexterm>commenting
            on</indexterm></indexterm>comments on posts. Plus, the variety of the commenters’ voices
          can show the type of audience the blogger has gained. When you measure these factors,
          rephrase the Return on Investment (ROI) question as an investment in Influence. In your
          environment, how can you prove that Influence is worth investing in?</p><p>After you have determined that time and resources should be invested in order to increase
          influence, how do you find the time for this “extra” work? Is it really extra? You can
          shape your role by studying the desired outcome and the values you place on influence. You
          may find a role as enabler or <indexterm>content<indexterm>curators
            of</indexterm></indexterm>curator yields better results than a role of content
          contributor.</p><p>If your measurements are proving the value, showing time or <indexterm>return on
            investment (ROI)<indexterm>proving</indexterm></indexterm>costs savings should be
          straightforward. Look for real sales or connections made as a result of a blog entry or a
            <indexterm>wikis<indexterm>measuring effectiveness</indexterm></indexterm>wiki article
          or a customer support forum post. For example, compare money spent on a marketing and
          public relations campaign with the cost of a few hours of a technical writer’s time
          writing a blog entry.</p><p>And how about the opposite question: if everyone else writes the content, which should
          save writers <indexterm>social media<indexterm>time
          commitment</indexterm></indexterm>time, what do they do with the time saved to continue to
          add value? Edit like a magazine publisher? Become a curator of content? Or a <indexterm>manager, community</indexterm><indexterm>community manager</indexterm><indexterm>communities<indexterm>managing</indexterm></indexterm>community manager? <indexterm>Bailie, Rahel</indexterm>Rahel Bailie, content strategist and founder of Intentional
          Design, believes this is the new role for technical writers, saying “To be able to
          leverage User Generated Content, an organization needs to have a community from which to
          draw information and opinions, and those communities need <indexterm>moderation<indexterm>community</indexterm></indexterm>moderators. Community management, a relatively new
          career track, seems to be a logical next step for content developers.”<fn>
            <p> http://www.enewsbuilder.net/techcommanager/e_article001389770.cfm?x=b11,0,w</p>
          </fn></p></body></subsection>