<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e800"><title>Managing these conversational, connective, community methods</title><body><p>As with the introduction of any new technology, you should ask yourself whether it is
        necessary? What criteria make this conversation-based implementation important at this point
        in the product’s lifecycle? How can you make it a priority? You need to be able to write a
        business case for the cost savings or time savings that could occur based on the
        conversation-based implementation that you are considering. Find out what business areas
        need the most work right now. Understand your department’s place in the organization—are you
        more helpful to marketing and pre-sales efforts or to technical support? Does your audience
        consist mostly of internal consultants, and if so, what are their biggest hurdles? How could
        conversation-based or community-based content help them meet their goals?</p><p>Also consider that your manager has access to more information than you do and may
        understand the current customer climate and community better than you do. Without the
        necessary tools and information, you cannot easily build relationships, and relationship
        building should probably start with your team’s and manager’s buy-in. </p></body></subsection>