<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e1192"><title>Grassroots efforts</title><body><p>Grassroots efforts are defined by an unofficial group starting a project without
          authority or hierarchy but with organic growth and natural networking tendencies. When a
          few friends or coworkers who share a common vision or goal start on an effort that grows
          beyond their expectations, that would be a grassroots<indexterm>grassroots
            efforts</indexterm> effort. </p><p>Another term that is used rather than grassroots<indexterm>grassroots efforts</indexterm>
          is <indexterm>groundswell</indexterm>groundswell, from the book by the same name. In this
          context, a groundswell is “a social trend in which people use technologies to get the
          things they need from each other rather than from traditional institutions like
          corporations.” It is also described more simply as a change in public opinion that is
          broad and far-reaching. Writers can build a groundswell because they know the product
          well, can help people make connections with each other with social technologies, and can
          write well enough to convince others of the basic value of the product. Writers may also
          already know community members who might be willing to help with a few tasks, or at least
          be willing to review write-ups. With a publishing platform like a blog or a wiki, writers
          enable conversations to take place that may not have had a place to occur.</p><p>Writers at a mobile phone designer and manufacturer who wanted to experiment with a wiki
          decided to go through the correct channels for a legal disclaimer by simply requesting
          revisions to the legal verbiage in their existing online help disclaimer. They were
          pleasantly surprised when their legal department was helpful and encouraged their
          experiment. Then the writers created a <indexterm>MediaWiki<indexterm>at mobile phone
              manufacturer</indexterm></indexterm>MediaWiki installation, pre-seeded it with content
          from their user guide, and waited to see if users would find it and edit it. </p><p>Interestingly, a few years after this experimental wiki, it turns out, another wiki built
          by end-users of the cell phone they intended to document and build a community around,
          became “the” source for information and user-to-user communication about the phone and
          tips and tricks. In that case, while the company wiki was helpful, the external community
          wiki was more visited and edited. I think their experiment showed their relative naivete
          about the power of community building rather than web page building.</p><p>Another term related to grassroots is astroturf, which is a group that wants to be known
          as grassroots but is conceived, created, and sometimes funded by a corporation or lobby.
          Full disclosure of the backing behind your efforts is the best course of action to avoid
          distrust or suspicion later when someone reveals the origin of the group and the
          underlying motivations. </p></body></subsection>