<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e54"><title>Taking stock of current communities and conversations</title><body><p>Before you jump in and risk embarrassing yourself or your team or, worse yet, angering
          customers or internal departments, with the absolute worst risk of being fired, you need
          to analyze and understand the <indexterm>communities<indexterm>writer's role
              in</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>communities<indexterm>existing</indexterm></indexterm>communities
          that already exist within your company or externally and learn how to interact or stand
          back. As writers, we need to figure out whether we would be welcomed as members of the
          community or whether we should instead try to enable the conversation through our
          deliverables. Based on the size of your particular community base, you may decide to
          immerse yourself in the <indexterm>communities<indexterm>participation
            in</indexterm></indexterm>community, to become a part of the conversation, and make your
          customers feel like you are helping them solve problems. </p><p>Realize that there are <indexterm>grassroots communities for
            products</indexterm>grassroots<indexterm>grassroots efforts</indexterm>
          <indexterm>communities<indexterm>grassroots</indexterm></indexterm>communities related to
          commercial products. For example, the XMFan site<fn>
            <p> http://xmfan.com/</p>
          </fn> was started by regular people who are fans of XM Radio. Another example is the
            IKEAFans<fn>
            <p> http://ikeafans.com/</p>
          </fn> site offers support help and an “IKEApedia” area with assembly manuals included.
          When approaching a <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>enabling</indexterm></indexterm>community started outside of the company, though, be
          cautious of whether you would be considered an intruder or outsider. </p><p>An excellent example of a writer offering their community involvement back with
          improvements to content is the lead writer for Adobe InDesign and InCopy products, Bob
            <indexterm>Bringhurst, Bob</indexterm>Bringhurst. He writes a blog at
          blogs.adobe.com/indesigndocs/ with announcements, buried treasures, and bonus
          documentation, to name a few categories. He is active on the user forums and uses his blog
          to talk to community members and link to others’ blogs, such as this InDesign link round
          up entry.<fn>
            <p> http://blogs.adobe.com/indesigndocs/2009/05/best_indesign_links_of_may.html</p>
          </fn></p><p>You could follow different models for participation in communities—use the technical
          writer as personality and deliverer of content, a “sage on stage” model where the writer
          instigates participation opportunities, or involve the technical writer as a bystander of
          the conversation. In the second model, the writer is more like a stage hand who needs to
          understand the inner workings of the community theater to put on a good show. We can
          enable conversation through our user assistance without being the star of the show. A
          third model of participation is to listen to many communities and learn from the
          interactions of others, bringing that knowledge back into the technical documentation or
          passing it to the appropriate groups at your company. </p><p>Anne Zelenka<indexterm>Zelenka, Anne</indexterm> has written about the <i>information
            age</i> versus the <indexterm>connectivity age</indexterm><i>connectivity age</i> on the
          Web Worker Daily<indexterm>Web Worker Daily</indexterm> web site.<fn>
            <p> http://gigaom.com/2007/10/06/from-the-information-age-to-the-connected-age/</p>
          </fn> I believe this distinction is an important one for the participation models that
          writers can choose. Are you an information worker or a connection worker, and does your
          corporate culture support you more in one model or another? Anne likens the building of
            Microsoft<indexterm>Microsoft<indexterm>"information age"
            example</indexterm></indexterm> as an example of the information age. The currency is
          always monetary, and the information that Microsoft created begat monolithic software.
          Google, on the other hand, has built a <indexterm>Google<indexterm>business
              model</indexterm></indexterm>business model based on human behavior to make products
          that use attention, such as Adwords, turn into monetized goods. If you can find a way to
          turn attention to your online help with <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>locating</indexterm></indexterm>conversation or community inclusion, you have moved
          your user assistance into the connected age. Take note of where your company already
          exhibits movement towards the connected age. </p><p>If you have observed that most user <indexterm>communities<indexterm>content contributed
              by</indexterm></indexterm>communities do not publish comprehensive tomes, you are
          correct. As Andy Oram<indexterm>Oram, Andy</indexterm> of O’Reilly Media says, people who
          respond to email <indexterm>mailing lists<indexterm>community-based
            content</indexterm></indexterm>lists do not even think that they are writing
            documentation.<fn>
            <p> http://www.oreillynet.com/onlamp/blog/2007/01/why_do_you_contribute_to_commu.html
            </p>
          </fn> However, because a search can find the information, and the information can answer
          someone’s question later, it actually is documentation. As Darren Barefoot<indexterm>Barefoot, Darren</indexterm> said in his talk “Everyone’s a technical writer” at
            <indexterm>DocTrain West conference</indexterm>DocTrain West in spring 2008, the “people
          formerly known as the audience” are already documenting your products in ways you could
          never hope to cover yourself with a team of technical writers.</p></body></subsection>