<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e299"><title>Participation phase</title><body><p>In this phase, you can blog and<indexterm>comments<indexterm>on blog
            posts</indexterm></indexterm>
          <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>joining</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>blogging<indexterm>commenting</indexterm></indexterm>comment
          on blogs. The authors of the book <i>Groundswell</i>, Charlene <indexterm>Li,
            Charlene</indexterm>Li and Josh <indexterm>Bernoff, Josh</indexterm>Bernoff, suggest
          that you write five entries to see if you have the ability to stick with regular
            <indexterm>blogging<indexterm>regularly</indexterm></indexterm>blogging. Internal
          blogging is also a good starting point, where the blog can only be read behind a corporate
          firewall. Other participation ideas include:</p><ul><li>Find a wiki and contribute. Start with small tasks such as editing or tagging. </li><li>Offer a comment mechanism built into your <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>conversation-based tools in</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>help,
                online<indexterm>comments in</indexterm></indexterm>help system.</li><li>Offer a <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>surveys in</indexterm></indexterm>survey on
            your help system. </li><li>Start tagging sites relevant to your product on delicious.com, reddit.com, or
            stumbleupon.com.</li><li>Offer a live chat or take a turn staffing the live chat if you have the
            knowledge.</li><li>Consider joining or <indexterm>moderation<indexterm>forums</indexterm></indexterm>moderating a <indexterm>communities<indexterm>participation in</indexterm></indexterm>customer forum or <indexterm>boards<indexterm>message</indexterm></indexterm>board that has private messaging
            where one-on-one conversations can occur. </li></ul></body></subsection>