<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e40"><title>What’s in this book</title><body><p>Use this book to help you experiment with
        and explore social media techniques, and to analyze and interpret the results. It offers
        descriptions and definitions for the technologies and publishing methods that make up this
        new way of thinking about content. </p><p>After defining the areas that social media and
        social networking encompass, the book provides ideas for defining your role as a content
        author or provider. Next, you can find planning and implementation suggestions and advice as
        well as considerations for choosing your role and goals as a writer or provider of content.
        </p><p>This book also includes a chapter on measuring the effectiveness of these
        experimental areas as well as proving their value to various stakeholders. Finally, you can
        find specific ideas for integrating conversation, community, and collaboration into
        documentation. </p><p>In this book you can learn about enabling conversation and community
        in your documentation using <indexterm>social networking<indexterm>integrating with
            documentation</indexterm></indexterm>social media and social networking. The definition
        of documentation ranges from the standard email message on a mailing list, to a
        140-character microblog post, to an exhaustively examined and discussed forum post or wiki
        article, to a traditional online help file, to the trusty dog-eared manual or often-opened
        PDF file. </p><p>What does it mean to enable a conversation, and how do you assess Web 2.0
        tools and strategies such as wikis and blogs? In the landscape of technology products, the
        consumption of technical topics is often distilled to finding the right answer quickly, to
        solving the problem, and moving on. End-users do not necessarily care about the source of
        the information or whether it was written by a professional; they judge the information
        solely on its ability to solve their immediate problem. </p><p>So if you are a professional
        writer, how do you fit into a landscape in which content must be constantly available and
          <indexterm>content<indexterm>up-to-date</indexterm></indexterm>up-to-date, where blog
        entries get more visitors than your help pages? How do you ensure that your content has the
        same or better value than content from a myriad of online sources? If you are a developer
        who wants to ensure that users have a good experience and get the answers they need, how do
        you respond to their questions naturally or presciently? If you are a content creator, such
        as a filmmaker or game designer, how do you ensure that you are entering the conversation
        and enabling community in your communications?</p><p>To answer these questions, and to help
        writers determine which <indexterm>social networking<indexterm>tools</indexterm></indexterm>social networking tools might help them communicate technical
        information to their end-users, this book examines the categories of social media and
        networking tools and provides pointers for evaluating each newcomer or old
      standby.</p></body></subsection>