<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e109"><title>Acknowledgments</title><body><p>I work a 30-hour work week so that not only
          can I spend my time pursuing interesting projects, but I can also work a longer “mom
          shift” in the afternoons and evenings. Without nap time, early bedtime routines for my
          kids, truly-caring child care, and above all, a wonderful husband, I never could have
          written this book, nor would I have learned the lessons that enabled me to write it.
          </p><p>I offer special thanks and gratitude to my husband Paul for encouraging me. His
          involvement in the distributed.net community brought us to Austin, and showed me the power
          of volunteers sharing a common cause. </p><p>My good friend Kelly Holcomb skillfully
          edited the first drafts of this book. She read it, edited it, and asked wise questions in
          the margins, which compelled me to answer them. </p><p>I owe a huge debt for the education
          I have received from <indexterm>FLOSS Manuals<indexterm>author's experience
              with</indexterm></indexterm>FLOSS Manuals founder <indexterm>Hyde,
          Adam</indexterm>Adam Hyde and <indexterm>SugarLabs</indexterm>SugarLabs coordinator David
            <indexterm>Farning, David</indexterm>Farning. They both read extremely early drafts of
          this book and encouraged me throughout the process. Adam generously contributed most of
          the content about Book Sprints. Working with him has been inspirational. He has assembled
          a great crew at FLOSS Manuals, which connected me with Patrick Davison, who did the
          interior and cover designs for the book. And without FLOSS Manuals I might not have met
          Andy <indexterm>Oram, Andy</indexterm>Oram, who graciously read the book, offered
          guidance, and wrote an insightful foreword.</p><p><i>Thanks to “ThisParticularGreg,” “J.E.
            Theriot,” “krossbow,” and “Pathfinder Linden” for their photographs and for making their
            photographs available on flickr.com under a Creative Commons License. Thanks to “nolnet”
            for giving me permission to use photos of his Lego refrigerator.</i></p><p><i>Thanks to
            Dee Elling for permission to use my interview with her and for the lessons learned that
            she shared with me. </i></p><p><i>Scott Abel, Sarah O’Keefe, Alan Porter, and Will
            Sansbury read a hack of a draft and offered wonderful insights from their varied
            perspectives. I learned from each of them even while editing the book based on their
            feedback. Without their collective knowledge, wisdom, and experiences plus generously
            giving their time to read and offer comments, this book would not be as useful to all of
            us. </i></p></body></subsection>