<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:chapter" "chapter.dtd">
<chapter id="d5e2"><title>2: Concepts and Tools of &#8232;the Social Web</title><prolog/><body><p outputclass="epigram">In my eighties, my best friends are in their fifties, and I have many friends at university. It keeps one young, and up with the vocabulary. That’s terribly important, especially for a writer. &#8232;—Mary Wesley</p><p>Before you begin learning about the social web or trying it out for yourself, you may become overwhelmed just by the vocabulary. This book offers a sampling of some of the terms that you might come across. While this chapter offers some definitions, you also need to realize that the meanings change and morph, and often you will have to search the Internet or ask a colleague or friend for their definition before coming to your own conclusion about a new term and whether it is useful to keep in your vocabulary. Beware of trendy but meaningless terms, and be choosy about your definitions. </p><p>This chapter contains a frozen-in-time list of some terms and tools in 2009 that are related to social media. It isn’t easy to define every term, and often the best way to learn a definition for one of these terms is to try the concept for yourself to get a sense of what it is all about. Or, ask someone who uses these tools often for their favorite use cases. Even those items that do not currently seem to fit your business goals may someday be applicable in another situation. </p></body><subsection id="d5e10"><title>Social media tools and content</title><body><p>This summary table describes the types of <indexterm>social networking<indexterm>tools</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>social media<indexterm>tools</indexterm></indexterm>tools and names of some examples with definitions. </p><p/></body><subsection id="d5e159"><title>Tagging</title><body><p outputclass="tag_keywords">folksonomy, social bookmarking<indexterm>social bookmarking</indexterm>, tag clouds<indexterm>tag clouds</indexterm>, taxonomy</p><p><indexterm>content<indexterm>tagging</indexterm></indexterm>Tagging involves a skill with which many technical writers are familiar—determining which keywords best describe a blog entry, link, photo, <indexterm>video<indexterm>tagging</indexterm></indexterm>video, or image for retrieval later. Social <indexterm>content<indexterm>bookmarking</indexterm></indexterm>bookmarking<indexterm>bookmarking, social</indexterm> sites like delicious.com<indexterm>delicious.com</indexterm> and digg.com<indexterm>digg.com</indexterm> use tagging, or keywords, to help users find their links later or group them into categories. What is more advanced and even social about tagging is that you can usually see the tags that others use, and also see the content that they’ve tagged. Tagging is a little more chaotic and less organized than more familiar techniques like indexing, so it might take some time to adjust your expectations. </p><p>For example, your company style guide<indexterm>style guidance</indexterm> might mandate that the gerund form of a verb is always required, or that plurals should be preferred keyword forms. But with tagging, any word or term is allowed, and sometimes the terms don’t match—work and working are one example of such tag mismatch. The collective set of tags is known as a <indexterm>folksonomy</indexterm>folksonomy—a taxonomy<indexterm>taxonomy</indexterm> created by everyday folks. Where taxonomies are strict and rigid, a folksonomy is flexible and allows for any term. Both are powerful. </p><p>Tag <indexterm>clouds, tag</indexterm>clouds are a visual method of displaying tags. Tag clouds use font size or weight to indicate the amount of content or popularity of each tag.</p><fig><title>Visual cloud of words created on Wordle.net<fn><p> Technically this is not a tag cloud since the words were collected from the feed for my blog, www.justwriteclick.com.</p></fn></title></fig><p>While social bookmarking and social tagging are some of the least adopted technologies on the social web, these very same technologies also show the most promise for businesses as they share information and <indexterm>collaboration<indexterm>social tagging and</indexterm></indexterm>collaborate internally and externally with others, according to a Gilbane survey.<fn><p> Gilbane Report on Collaboration and Social Media 2008</p></fn> While only 5% of those surveyed said they currently use social bookmarking, nearly half of those using it rated it very effective. Customer support groups can share how-to and troubleshooting information by using tags for links that answer customer questions. One technical publications group collects the tagged links from the support group once a week as a report on the most asked and answered questions. </p></body><subsection id="d5e229"><title>Tagging examples</title><body><p>In 2003 the web site <indexterm>del.icio.us</indexterm>del.icio.us, now renamed delicious.com, offered users the ability to apply metadata as tags on stored bookmarks for easier retrieval later. Users also share their tagged bookmarks with others on the site. <ph>Figure 2</ph> shows a list of bookmarks with the tags for each on the right-hand side.</p><fig><title>delicious.com<indexterm>delicious.com</indexterm></title></fig><p>Pronounced flicker, the photo-sharing site Flickr has an explore-by-tags feature (<ph>Figure 3</ph>) that shows the popularity of tags like “birthday” and “family.” The Hot tags area shows the most common tags used for recent uploads, and the font size of the list of tags indicates the popularity of that tag on the entire site.</p><fig><title>flickr.com<indexterm>flickr.com</indexterm></title></fig></body></subsection></subsection><subsection id="d5e255"/><subsection id="d5e256"><title>Shared content</title><body><p outputclass="tag_keywords"><indexterm>communities<indexterm>content contributed by</indexterm></indexterm>community content, user-based content, user-generated<indexterm>user-generated content</indexterm>, publishing, participatory media<indexterm>participatory media</indexterm></p><p><indexterm>content<indexterm>community-generated</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content<indexterm>sharing</indexterm></indexterm>If you study social media, you’ll see that production and distribution changes are at the heart of these emerging methods. Naturally, another concept or skill that technical writers know about is creating content. What is interesting about the recent mind shift towards <indexterm>social media<indexterm>community development</indexterm></indexterm>community content<indexterm>community-generated content<indexterm>developing</indexterm></indexterm> is the thought that “everyone’s a technical writer.” In reality, of course, everyone is not a paid technical writer by profession, and hopefully paid writers have the skills, experience, and practice that set them apart from the rest of the crowd. </p><p>But, where user-based <indexterm>content<indexterm>user-generated</indexterm></indexterm>content lives, there is also a passion for the product, and customer forums and fan-built web sites display that passion for all to see. Consumer-generated media, as it is also called, can refer to many different kinds of media as well, not just written text, but video, audio<indexterm>audio<indexterm>consumer-generated media</indexterm></indexterm>, and images. </p><p>A conversation can begin with a user <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>content created from</indexterm></indexterm>creating a rough draft of <indexterm>publishing<indexterm>changes in</indexterm></indexterm>content, even as a question on a support forum. A technical communicator then builds a mental concept because of being afforded the user’s perspective through their contribution. Comments on wiki pages and two-way conversations on online forums are a prominent part of this type of content sharing, mixing, and modifying. </p><p><indexterm>publishing<indexterm>models</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>publishing<indexterm>incorrect content</indexterm></indexterm>Publishing models get turned over when anyone can publish content and make it instantly available through Internet channels. A few years ago it wouldn’t have been possible to view published content as easily and quickly as we can now. Of course people argue that the more content there is, the less peer-review or any review or editing it gets, so therefore it must be lesser quality. That assumption has not always held true, though, when evaluation<indexterm>evaluation<indexterm>of content</indexterm></indexterm> of the content may be based on whether it solves a problem quickly. A higher <indexterm>search<indexterm>rankings</indexterm></indexterm>search<indexterm>search<indexterm>accessing documentation through</indexterm></indexterm> ranking may prove that the consumer-created content is in fact helping more people. However, the converse of that issue is that if an incorrect message or workaround is being published, perhaps you should strike up a conversation with the person publishing the incorrect information to see how you can correct the content or the person’s perception. </p><p>If you read through <indexterm>discussions about content<indexterm>in comments</indexterm></indexterm>comments about your documentation from your users, you may find sophisticated readers who have high <indexterm>technical documentation<indexterm>expectations for</indexterm></indexterm>expectations for the consistency, organization, and findability<indexterm>findability</indexterm> of your documentation. </p><p>What you might also find is that every representation of your company just might be thought of as “<indexterm>technical documentation<indexterm>user suggestions</indexterm></indexterm>technical documentation,” including white papers or data sheets on your website that were not created in your department. I have been pleasantly surprised by suggestions from a customer that accurately pinpointed an area to improve based on the latest best practices and standards for online documentation. I’m certain that the next level of sophisticated information seeker will also have high expectations and concrete suggestions.</p><p>What also might follow, as your customers verbalize their hopes for product documentation, is a willingness to assist. So, another interesting aspect of this new publishing channel is what motivates people to contribute content. When it is your job to create the content, like it is for technical communicators, money is your motivation to some extent. Other content creators may be motivated by wanting to be known as an expert in the field, wanting to help others so that they’ll be helped in the future when needed, feeling like a part of a group or a greater cause, and finally, a sense of time gained by publishing something once instead of repeatedly sending the same message. </p></body><subsection id="d5e363"><title>Shared content examples</title><body><p>The <indexterm>World of Warcraft</indexterm>World of Warcraft <indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>World of Warcraft</indexterm></indexterm>wiki is a popular wikis for players of the massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG). Recently ranked in the top 800 web sites in the United States by Alexa, it contains articles about the game’s characters, game play guides, customization guides, and strategy information. <ph>Figure 4</ph> shows an article about combat that links to armor and weapon articles and describes concepts of combat in the game. </p><fig><title>wowwiki.com<indexterm>wowwiki.com</indexterm></title></fig><p>With the tagline “The How-to Manual that You Can Edit,” the <indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>wikiHow</indexterm></indexterm>wikiHow site contains many how-to articles with topics ranging from hobbies to holidays. In January 2009, the site surpassed the 50,000 article mark.<fn><p> http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Jack_Herrick,_WikiHow_founder_interviewed_by_Wikinews</p></fn></p><fig><title><indexterm>wikihow.com</indexterm>wikihow.com<indexterm>wikihow.com</indexterm></title></fig></body></subsection></subsection><subsection id="d5e400"><title>Syndicated content</title><body><p outputclass="tag_keywords">podcast<indexterm>podcasts<indexterm>as syndicated content</indexterm></indexterm>, blog, web log, vlog<indexterm>vlog</indexterm>, video log<indexterm>video log</indexterm>, RSS, subscription, feeds, aggregation, news</p><p><indexterm>content<indexterm>syndicated</indexterm></indexterm>All of these terms are related to content that is updated regularly. <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>syndication</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>blogs<indexterm>description of</indexterm></indexterm>Blogs are typically text content that is updated often; sometimes additions are made multiple times a day. Blog entries range from a few sentences making a comment or linking to another site to fully developed essays. Blogs can be personal or professional with a lot of differences found in between. You can find the original definition of web blog and why it became blog on Jason <indexterm>Kottke, Jason</indexterm>Kottke’s blog.<fn><p> http://kottke.org</p></fn> </p><p>Podcasts are <indexterm>content<indexterm>audio</indexterm></indexterm>audio<indexterm>audio<indexterm>podcasts</indexterm></indexterm> files that are posted regularly. Often podcasts are posted using blogging software, so there may be overlap between the two types. Podcasts are much like a radio show featuring interviews. </p><p>A vlog or <indexterm>content<indexterm>video</indexterm></indexterm>video<indexterm>video<indexterm>log, vlog</indexterm></indexterm> log<indexterm>video log</indexterm> involves regularly posted video content. An example is rocketboom.com, which was a news show featuring an amateur newscaster who became so popular she often had more viewers than the local news affiliates in her area.</p><p>So how does regularly updated web <indexterm>content<indexterm>up-to-date</indexterm></indexterm>content compare to your online <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>compared to blogs</indexterm></indexterm>help experience for your users? Have you already implemented an online help system with dynamic updates, or are you still tied to the software release schedule? As customers become more accustomed to the immediacy of blog updates, they may increasingly expect frequent updates. </p><p><indexterm>conversations<indexterm>blogs</indexterm></indexterm>Also, consider writing a blog yourself, from the viewpoint of dedicated technical writer, to increase awareness of your customers that you are a real person inside the company, working hard at providing accurate, relevant information. You can be part of the customer conversation that blogging provides. </p><p>While <indexterm>social media<indexterm>metrics</indexterm></indexterm>social media <indexterm>metrics<indexterm>blogging influence</indexterm></indexterm>metrics are still in their infancy, many studies show that the <indexterm>reach and influence (R and I)</indexterm>reach and <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>influence of</indexterm></indexterm>influence<indexterm>influence, measuring</indexterm> of bloggers can be and will be measured. For example, blogging about information development or architecture issues that you wrestle with in the name of high-quality documentation might stick out as a good selling point for your company’s product, giving the customer confidence that you are giving your best towards helping them solve business problems. </p><p>One example of a blog that gives the technical writer a voice in the <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>corporate advantage</indexterm></indexterm>corporate world is my former blog on <indexterm>blogs, examples<indexterm>talk.bmc.com</indexterm></indexterm>talk.bmc.com. Any salesperson would get very excited if a potential customer reading the conversations at talk.bmc.com led to a one-on-one contact. White paper downloads are <indexterm>metrics<indexterm>social media effectiveness</indexterm></indexterm>tracked through the links from the blog authors as well, and blog readers are likely also white paper consumers, doing their homework with searches. Industry analysts also read talk.bmc.com, and got to know some of the bloggers, which in turn helps the analysts understand the goals of the business and interpret the values and strategies that the company employs to serve customer needs. Analysts’ attention is sought by public relations and marketing departments. </p><p>Another recent trend is the use of <indexterm>content<indexterm>blogs</indexterm></indexterm>blogs for describing new features in <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>product information in</indexterm></indexterm>products, especially web applications. Examples are the new Google Calendar features described in a blog entry<fn><p> http://gmailblog.blogspot.com/2009/01/get-calendar-on-your-google-desktop.html</p></fn> and SmugMug’s blog<fn><p> http://blogs.smugmug.com/release-notes/</p></fn> where the entire blog is dedicated to <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>release information in</indexterm></indexterm>release information.</p><p>The <indexterm>Jing online help</indexterm>Jing product’s <indexterm>search<indexterm>online help and</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>help, online<indexterm>created in blogging tool</indexterm></indexterm>online <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>Jing example</indexterm></indexterm>help<fn><p> http://help.jingproject.com/</p></fn> is written and maintained in <indexterm>Movable Type</indexterm>Movable Type, a blogging tool. Jing is a relatively new screencasting tool. Many blogging tools can be used as content management systems, and it appears that Jing’s writers see blog engines that way too. The writers are taking advantage of some nice built-in features, such as a <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>searching within</indexterm></indexterm>Search field at the top of every page, and the Categories link at the bottom of each help topic give an automated collection of topics. They have just one “table of contents” for the help system, and that’s the top page, but it works nicely as a site map. The overall effect is a very simple and elegant user assistance or support system.</p><p>A blog can work well for release notes. Give your product some “<indexterm>Google<indexterm>"juice"</indexterm></indexterm>Google juice”—the mysterious quality that raises the ranking of a page in Google’s search—and generate buzz for new features by giving other bloggers a well-understood infrastructure to link to you and give your entries trackbacks. </p><p>This model works best when your release notes are not the primary vehicle for reporting bug fixes, since the open, honest style of blogging may reveal more than your marketing department would like. Separating feature information from bug reporting may help you “spin” features without guilt, while keeping the information factual.</p></body><subsection id="d5e589"><title>Syndication and RSS</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>RSS (Really Simple Syndication)<indexterm>described</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>described</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p>The <term>RSS</term> acronym stands for Really Simple Syndication. RSS and <term>Atom</term>, a similar standard, are XML-based formats for distributing and gathering content from sources across the Web, including newspapers, magazines, wikis, and blogs. This syndication ability is the real beauty of blogs and podcasts. You write a blog entry or upload a podcast or edit a wiki page, and people get notified when that new content is posted. According to <indexterm>Technorati</indexterm>Technorati, blog subscriptions were doubling every five months in 2006.<fn><p>	http://technorati.com/weblog/2006/02/81.html, see http://technorati.com/blogging/state-of-the-blogosphere/ for more recent data.</p></fn> This subscription technology is a big deal. </p><p>RSS, one of the few three-letter acronyms in blogging and podcasting, is not all that technical. RSS and feeds are nothing more than notifications and alerts for new items, be they new blog posts, new or changed wiki pages, or even package tracking notification. </p><p>RSS<indexterm>RSS (Really Simple Syndication)<indexterm>aggregators</indexterm></indexterm> aggregators are tools that manage a collection of subYou can find popular RSS aggregators or readers on the web.<fn><p>	http://blogspace.com/rss/readers</p></fn> The first aggregators for reading blogs<indexterm>blogs<indexterm>syndication</indexterm></indexterm> were standalone readers (Sharpreader is an example) and then web-based readers were created. Bloglines<indexterm>Bloglines</indexterm> and Google Reader are popular web-based readers, and some browsers have this ability built-in. Feed reader tools often offer a combination of notifications via email, mobile devices, or on the web. </p><p>For audio content, like podcasts, people can load an audio file to a player such as an <indexterm>iPod</indexterm>iPod, or listen using an application such as iTunes on their computer, or just read about the podcast before deciding whether to download the audio or not. How people want to listen to content then dictates which feed they choose. </p><p><indexterm>Feedburner</indexterm><indexterm>Google<indexterm>Feedburner</indexterm></indexterm>Feedburner is a Google-owned tool that offers subscription pages that contain buttons for the most popular aggregators. All you have to do is click one of the buttons to subscribe to a feed with that particular aggregator. <ph>Figure 6</ph> shows examples of the buttons.</p><fig><title>Subscriber aggregator buttons</title></fig><p>On different sites, several different feeds are available that allow you to track subscriptions and gather detailed statistics like what browser a reader uses to access the site, whether it’s a robot that’s crawling the site, and so on. </p><p>For podcasts, sometimes there are different icons that represent different audio<indexterm>audio<indexterm>accessing content through</indexterm></indexterm> feeds. For example, you can subscribe to a feed that downloads the audio files directly to an iPod or other audio player. Another RSS<indexterm>RSS (Really Simple Syndication)<indexterm>for podcasts</indexterm></indexterm> feed downloads the audio<indexterm>audio<indexterm>feeds</indexterm></indexterm> files directly to a computer and plays them in iTunes<indexterm>iTunes</indexterm>. Yet another feed offered by some podcasters gives text-only summaries of the podcast containing notes for each podcast. People subscribe to the summary feed when they want to know about the podcast topic and contents before downloading the audio file. </p><p>If you click an RSS icon, your browser handles that type of file in a default manager unless the website has set it up with another page link. For example, you could go to a page that contains aggregator subscribe buttons. If you right-click the RSS icon, you can copy and paste the feed URL into your aggregator. </p><p>I have been completely amazed by the ways people are using <indexterm>RSS (Really Simple Syndication)<indexterm>variety of uses</indexterm></indexterm>RSS for notifications. At a South By SouthWest Interactive (SXSWi) session I attended in 2006, the panelists presented a list of sample ideas you can do with RSS and a feed reader<indexterm>feed readers</indexterm> such as Bloglines<indexterm>Bloglines</indexterm> or Google Reader.</p><ul><li>Get new podcasts or video<indexterm>video<indexterm>downloading through feeds</indexterm></indexterm>s by subscribing to a feed on <indexterm>iTunes</indexterm>iTunes or Apple TV so that you automatically get updates downloaded to your iPod or Apple TV. RSS subscriptions are not just for text notifications.</li><li>Find out the most popular blog entries and topics with RSS—aggregation of information is crucial for this goal. You can enter a product name and continuously get information when a new item is created with that keyword. </li><li>Find time-critical information or immerse yourself in a point-in-time. On some feed readers you can search within a specific date range as well. Bloglines has added a longer time span to their return content feature, allowing you to read feeds from 2001. </li><li>Get updates to classified ads based on a <indexterm>search<indexterm>RSS and</indexterm></indexterm>search or a category. For example, if you are seeking a specific pre-owned electronic device for a cheaper price on craigslist, you can search for that keyword within the category, then copy the RSS feed link and put it into your feed reader. Any time a new item is added to the craigslist classified ads, the notification appears in your feed reader.</li><li>Follow group <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>following through syndication</indexterm></indexterm>conversations by RSS instead of using email and clogging up your inbox with multiple messages. Yahoo<indexterm>Yahoo</indexterm> Groups offers RSS feeds for conversations, so you can read them from one place such as Google Reader.</li><li>Track packages using RSS with a website like simpletracker.com. Some eBay resellers say that subscription-based <indexterm>email<indexterm>tracking</indexterm></indexterm>tracking is a useful tool rather than constantly using <indexterm>email<indexterm>compared to RSS</indexterm></indexterm>email messages for notification.</li><li>Use <indexterm>RSS (Really Simple Syndication)<indexterm>package tracking through</indexterm></indexterm>RSS subscriptions as an <indexterm>email<indexterm>compared to RSS</indexterm></indexterm>email subscription alternative for product newsletters. It still requires customers to opt-in, but they can choose not to be notified via email message.</li><li>Use an RSS calendar to turn calendar dates into RSS notifications for birthdays, anniversaries, and so on. The website is http://rsscalendar.com/.</li><li>Give notification for course information via an RSS feed.</li><li>Create keyword or hashtag searches with <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>searching within</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter’s <indexterm>search<indexterm>in Twitter</indexterm></indexterm>search engine<fn><p> http://search.twitter.com</p></fn> and subscribe to RSS<indexterm>RSS (Really Simple Syndication)<indexterm>following group discussions</indexterm></indexterm> notification for competitive intelligence and other specialized information, and receive notifications only when the Tweet is in your favored language. Language filtering is especially useful for a product name like the one I’ve worked with, iMIS, which is a Spanish word that tends to show up in Spanish language posts. Restricting the results to English-only posts eliminates the non-relevant Spanish content.</li><li>Search for job leads on indeed.com with RSS<indexterm>RSS (Really Simple Syndication)<indexterm>for job listings</indexterm></indexterm> notification; you subscribe to search<indexterm>search<indexterm>RSS and</indexterm></indexterm> terms, and search for your product to view the job descriptions of your typical end-user. For example, search for Remedy in Arkansas and 29 job descriptions show up, but if I subscribe to the RSS feed for that search, I can be notified when each new job listing appears. </li></ul><p>Think of how a subscription-based notification on end-user documentation changes could help your customers. Would a subscription to release notes additions help your customers? You do need your customers to want the constant updates, but since they control the amount of notificns, they can choose the interval and amount of updates they receive.</p></body></subsection><subsection id="d5e784"><title>Syndication examples</title><body><p>Blogs written by writers, such as this blog by the lead writer for InDesign and InCopy at Adobe, Bob Bringhurst, can give writers an opportunity for further explanation of a feature. A subscription to this blog gives people information, updates to the <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>blogging about</indexterm></indexterm>help, and general tips.</p><fig><title>blogs.adobe.com/indesigndocs</title></fig><p>By subscribing to updates, readers of this Embarcadero blog by the technical publications manager <indexterm>Elling, Dee</indexterm>Dee Elling can find out when a new set of <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>blogging about</indexterm></indexterm>documentation is released, such as the PDF files that this writer announces in this blog post. She also asks the readers about their favorite formats and invites feedback through her blog.</p><fig><title>blogs.embarcadero.com/deeelling/</title></fig></body></subsection></subsection><subsection id="d5e809"><title>Community </title><body><p outputclass="tag_keywords">wiki, user-based content, crowdsourcing<indexterm>crowdsourcing</indexterm>, discussion </p><p>Community-based content can be a <indexterm>collaboration<indexterm>community</indexterm></indexterm>collaborative effort on a website, or an email <indexterm>mailing lists<indexterm>community-based content</indexterm></indexterm>list that has a core set of members contributing information that furthers the <indexterm>community-generated content<indexterm>wikis and</indexterm></indexterm>community‘s goals. As <indexterm>Happe, Rachel</indexterm>Rachel Happe states in her <indexterm>blogs, examples<indexterm>The Social Organization</indexterm></indexterm>blog entry, Social Media is not Community,<fn><p> http://www.thesocialorganization.com/2008/07/social-media-is-not-community.html</p></fn> “<indexterm>communities<indexterm>goals</indexterm></indexterm>Communities gather around a concept or common goal not around a collection of <indexterm>content<indexterm>community-generated</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>communities<indexterm>content contributed by</indexterm></indexterm>content (although content does plays a major role, it is not the impetus for the community). So while <indexterm>wikis<indexterm>collaboration in</indexterm></indexterm>wikis are a type of community-based content, a community cannot be interchanged with the social media tool itself that enables working on the community goals.” </p><p>Wikis are a fourteen-year-old technology <indexterm>communities<indexterm>wikis supporting</indexterm></indexterm>for creating web pages quickly, with the additional ability for anyone with the correct permissions to edit any page on the wiki. Created by <indexterm>Cunningham, Ward</indexterm>Ward Cunningham in 1995 for making quick web pages for a consulting firm, wikis offer cross-platform, cross-browser display and encourage collaboration. </p><p>Many <indexterm>wikis<indexterm>applications</indexterm></indexterm>wiki applications have sophisticated methods for resolving even simultaneous edits. They encourage what is called “crowdsourcing<indexterm>crowdsourcing</indexterm>,” organizing an open call for contributions from anyone with interest and ability. Crowdsourcing was a term used in a 2006 Wired<indexterm>Wired</indexterm> article,<fn><p> http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/14.06/crowds.html</p></fn> but the concept dates back even to the 1800s when the Oxford English dictionary was created out of slips of paper with well-researched definitions submitted by volunteers.</p><p>For technical publications, wikis are an exciting new possibility for engaging the customer and getting the customer’s <indexterm>discussions about content<indexterm>in wikis</indexterm></indexterm>viewpoint on choices and tasks for concepts as well as scenarios for how they are using the product. Wikis offer living, breathing documentation due to the ability to change pages based on new information or based on the results of a discussion about the content. </p><p>Customers might expect a wiki to be in place for certain products, such as <indexterm>open source<indexterm>wikis for</indexterm></indexterm>open source technology or games. Even if your product doesn’t seem to support a group that would require or demand transparency and openness in the documentation, think about ways to offer collaborative tools even if you don’t offer a wiki.</p><p>I found the OLPC wiki at wiki.laptop.org very useful for project planning and recruiting. When I needed artwork to demonstrate how to open the laptop’s unique case, I posted a request on the Artwork Wanted page. I had two excellent figures sent via my wiki “Talk” page within three weeks. Also, I could talk to other wiki users by using their wiki “Talk” pages rather than relying on email.</p></body><subsection id="d5e909"><title>Wiki examples </title><body><ul><li><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Adobe Labs</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>communities<indexterm>examples of online</indexterm></indexterm>Adobe Labs: labs.adobe.com/wiki/index.php/Main_Page</li><li>Ajax patterns: ajaxpatterns.org</li><li>Apache<indexterm>Apache</indexterm> <indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Apache</indexterm></indexterm>wiki: wiki.apache.org</li><li><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Motorola Q</indexterm></indexterm>Knoppix wiki : www.knoppix.net/wiki/Main_Page </li><li>Microformats wiki: microformats.org/wiki/Main_Page</li><li>Motorola Q: www.motoqwiki.com </li><li><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Mozillazine Knowledge Base</indexterm></indexterm>Mozillazine Knowledge Base: kb.mozillazine.org/Knowledge_Base</li><li>One Laptop per Child wiki: wiki.laptop.org<indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Opera Browser</indexterm></indexterm></li><li>Opera Browser and Internet Suite wiki: operawiki.info/Opera</li><li>SugarCRM <indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>SugarCRM</indexterm></indexterm>Wiki: www.sugarcrm.com/wiki/index</li><li><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Ajax patterns</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>SQL Lite</indexterm></indexterm>SQL Lite: www.sqlite.org/cvstrac/wiki</li><li><indexterm>SugarLabs</indexterm><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Microformats</indexterm></indexterm>SugarLabs wiki: wiki.sugarlabs.org</li><li><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Ubuntu</indexterm></indexterm>Ubuntu user documentation: help.ubuntu.com/community </li></ul></body></subsection></subsection><subsection id="d5e989"><title>Presence and location</title><body><p outputclass="tag_keywords">BrightKite, Latitude, Twinkle, geo-spatial location awareness, poke<indexterm>poke</indexterm>, superpoke<indexterm>superpoke</indexterm>, status</p><p><indexterm>presence, online</indexterm>You may find it odd that there’s a function on web applications like Facebook to “poke” another user. On Twitter, you can “<indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>nudging</indexterm></indexterm>nudge” someone. It is basically a mechanism to get someone’s attention or to find out if they are online or not, indicated by poking you back. </p><p>Another presence or location item is the <indexterm>GPS</indexterm>GPS-based location indication that some web applications build in and integrate with GPS hardware to let others know if they’re mobile, or even their location as they travel. This data is called <indexterm>geospatial data</indexterm>geospatial data and content systems that know where someone is reading content can help you analyze the <indexterm>content<indexterm>localization</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>localization, analyzing</indexterm>localization or translation of content. For example, if you notice an upsurge in questions about a particular help topic coming from the Ottowa, Canada area, you could look for French-Canadian culture issues with the content and fix the issue.</p><p><indexterm>TripIt</indexterm>TripIt and <indexterm>Dopplr</indexterm>Dopplr are examples of travel web applications where you share your travels with friends and coworkers in the hopes of keeping others informed about where you are so that in-person meetings can happen. Mobility and <indexterm>status, indicating</indexterm>status knowledge might be useful if you attend your user’s conferences and want to set up face-to-face gatherings. </p></body><subsection id="d5e1034"><title>Presence example</title><body><p>By enabling more real-world interaction with a web application that collects location data and makes it meaningful to people, Dopplr (sounds like doppler) gives you trip tracking and trip planning abilities. This screenshot shows a map of my trips over a year’s time. It integrates with popular social networking sites like Facebook and LinkedIn to tell my network about my current location, and indicate upcoming trips that I have planned.</p><fig><title>dopplr.com</title></fig></body></subsection></subsection><subsection id="d5e1042"><title>Microblogging and post-style messaging</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>microblogging</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p outputclass="tag_keywords">Twitter, Identi.ca, Jaiku, Tumblr</p><p><indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>described</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter or other microcontent sites can offer customers more updates on the <indexterm>status, indicating</indexterm>status of your work. Twitter is a web-based application that gives you 140 characters to answer the question, “what are you doing?” The now-closed <indexterm>Pownce</indexterm>Pownce website offered mobile integration so that cell phone users could triangulate position if the user chose to reveal it to their friends. Facebook<indexterm>Facebook</indexterm> and LinkedIn have a status application built into the Profile page, where you fill in an answer to “What’s on your mind?” or “What are you working on?” or other fill-in-the-blank completion statements for your current status, state of mind, or whereabouts.</p><p>Twitter<indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>use at conferences</indexterm></indexterm> is especially useful if you are at a user conference and want to get together with like-minded individuals. Twitter’s character limit can be a difficult adjustment to figure out what you can communicate in such a small amount of text, but, integrating IM<indexterm>IM (Instant Messaging)</indexterm>-like or SMS-based communications into <indexterm>technical documentation<indexterm>microposts</indexterm></indexterm>technical documentation might provide an innovative delivery method for instant online help when a customer needs it. Think of the Tips and Tricks documentation sometimes offered as a beginning blurb when a software product launches. Twitter’s “tweets” are a similar small excerpt of information. </p><p>Provide a <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>integrating with technical documentation</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter feed of tips and tricks for your software, or news updates when a critical <indexterm>wikis<indexterm>broadcating page updates via Twitter</indexterm></indexterm>wiki page has been added to, or find ways to have IM-like discussions with your services or consulting teams while they are out on customer service calls. If you are familiar with the XML-based Darwin Information Typing Architecture (DITA), you could also think of Twitter posts like the &lt;shortdesc&gt; element required in every DITA topic that summarizes the topic.</p><p>You could also use microblog posts to offer a tip of the day, and link to an online help topic or support article each day. You can use Twitter helper applications like ping.fm to schedule posts to many social networks. Sarah <indexterm>Maddox, Sarah</indexterm>Maddox recently posted her experience with using Twitter to announce changes to their software product with links to release notes. She described their use of <indexterm>hashtags</indexterm><indexterm>tagging<indexterm>hashtags</indexterm></indexterm>hashtags and offers a detailed write up in this blog entry, <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>integrating with technical documentation</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter as a medium for release notes.<fn><p>	http://ffeathers.wordpress.com/2009/06/08/twitter-as-a-medium-for-release-notes/</p></fn></p><p>With Twitter<indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>hashtags</indexterm></indexterm>, you can also put <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>keywords</indexterm></indexterm>keywords, or hashtags, into your posts and automatically create a Twitter theme, called a <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>theme (Tweme)</indexterm></indexterm>Tweme. Posts with hashtags, indicated with a # sign in front of the keyword, are collected on a single page at twemes.com/keyword. For example, at the 2008 <indexterm>STC Summit</indexterm>STC Summit, Twitter users could enter #stc2008 anywhere in their Twitter post, and everyone could view those posts at http://twemes.com/stc2008. In 2009, the crowd chose #stc09 as the hashtag for Twitter posts related to the 2009 STC Summit. The search.twitter.com page was available by 2009, making it even easier to find the hashtags related to the conference. Beware of relying on Twitter servers for long term storage—often you cannot find the aggregate listing after a certain amount of time has passed, apparently about a week. </p><p>One of my favorite <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>story about</indexterm></indexterm>stories about Twitter’s usefulness at real-time events is from SXSWi 2008. At Tom <indexterm>Parish, Tom</indexterm>Parish’s social media metrics panel, I sat next to Summer Huggins, who works in Austin for Hammock, a media company based out of Nashville. We chatted about Austin, how I feel like a tourist in my own town when I come downtown, and laughed about the Compass Bank building when she said it looks like a giant nose hair trimmer. (Yes, it does.)</p><p>When she left the talk, she accidentally left her digital camera on her seat. I noticed it and asked both of the attendees in front of me if they caught her last name so that I could try to find an email address for her in the SXSWi attendee directory. None of us could remember her last name.</p><p>So, I took the camera in its cute case to the SXSW information desk to be placed in Lost &amp; Found, telling them that someone named Summer from Austin would hopefully pick it up. They said they’d be open until 8:00 and it would be kept in a safe place overnight.</p><p>Later that night, I started searching on twitter for someone named Summer from Austin who maybe, just maybe, had talked about attending the social media metrics panel. Sure enough, SummerH posted a tweet marked with #SXSW<fn><p> http://twitter.com/SummerH/statuses/768730904</p></fn> saying she had lost her digital camera! I immediately sent her a irect message on Twitter, clicked through to her blog, found her email address, and sent her an email telling her she could pick up her camera at SXSW Lost &amp; Found. Problem solved!</p><p>Summer was very excited and also noted the power of the Twitter and SXSW attendees by tweeting, “Lost camera is in-hand. How much do SXSWers rock?!?!” </p><fig><title>A single Twitter status update</title></fig><p>Twitter can also be useful for <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>crowdsourcing</indexterm></indexterm>crowdsourcing answers to simple questions. One example is the reaction David Pogue’s followers had to his demonstration of Twitter by asking “I need a cure for hiccups... RIGHT NOW! Help?”<fn><p> http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/29/technology/personaltech/29pogue-email.html</p></fn> He didn’t indicate that he was merely demonstrating the power of Twitter for a conference in Las Vegas, though. He had responses nearly immediately, but after those who answered his query found out he was showing off Twitter to a crowd of 1,000 people, their reactions ranged from humor to annoyance to feeling used. </p><p>I had an experience where I mentioned on Twitter that I was looking for Super Mario Jibbitz for Crocs shoes. I had two responses pointing me to sources for the item by the end of the day, from two differenful <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>for support</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter users can make a difference in the corporate world, also. TurboTax has customer support representatives with a Twitter account at http://twitter.com/turbotax. The Twitter bio section for that account gives the names of real people. They are posting helpful hints but also talking to others when they have questions. If your <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>integrating with technical documentation</indexterm></indexterm>technical publications role is closely aligned with the technical support department, and you think lots of your customers would appreciate a Twitter account to talk to, you might consider starting one with tips, tricks, and helpful information. </p><p>A blog might be enhanced with a Twitter account in a couple of ways. I was surprised when my number of Twitter followers passed my number of blog subscribers in 2009. I now link to blog entries from my Twitter account even though I was originally reluctant to do so (in 2007) because I thought people who followed me on <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>linking to blog</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter would be reading my blog from somewhere else, like a feed reader. In 2009, I did try automating the twitter post that linked to my <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>Twitter links to</indexterm></indexterm>blog entry with a <indexterm>WordPress</indexterm>WordPress plug in, but ultimately I choose not to automate linking to my blog entries, because I wanted to generate discussion and talk to others, not just get people to click-through to my blog.</p></body><subsection id="d5e1195"><title>Microblogging example</title><body><p>The <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>example</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter interface is as shockingly simple as your very first glance at the Google search engine form. It contains a single field with the label “What are you doing?” You enter up to 140 characters in that field, click the update button, and your <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>microblogging</indexterm></indexterm>microblog post is sent to all your followers. By following people on Twitter, you create your own “timeline” of the people you choose to follow to read their micropost updates.</p><fig><title>Twitter.com</title></fig></body></subsection></subsection><subsection id="d5e1211"><title>Profile</title><body><p outputclass="tag_keywords">LinkedIn<indexterm>LinkedIn</indexterm>, <indexterm>Naymz</indexterm>Naymz<indexterm>Naymz</indexterm>, Spock<indexterm>Spock</indexterm>, <indexterm>Friendster</indexterm>Friendster<indexterm>Friendster</indexterm>, MySpace, Facebook<indexterm>Facebook</indexterm></p><p><indexterm>profile, online</indexterm>Profile sites let users enter information about themselves (or others in the case of Spock). This information is searchable and can be correlated by entering information about relationships to others as well as your activities online and offline. Human Resources recruiters have found this source of information to be quite valuable, and sales and marketing and branding work and research are aided by studying these sites.</p><p>Much of the excitement and media coverage surrounding <indexterm>social networking<indexterm>sites</indexterm></indexterm>social media occurs when a large site that collects profiles about their users changes the way that data is displayed. For example, when MySpace<indexterm>MySpace<indexterm>site</indexterm></indexterm> began showing more distant relationships and activity that reached farther than users expected, users demanded that the feature be removed. Even though the data collection made it possible to see the relationships, users did not necessarily want these extended relationships revealed. Be aware that profiling can be misused, and privacy and portability of an online identity are controversial subjects. </p></body><subsection id="d5e1252"><title>Profile examples</title><body><p>LinkedIn is a networking site used primarily for keeping up professional contacts, performing job searches, writing recommendations for others, reading company profiles, and storing contact information for co-workers both current and previous. It is very useful for finding information about end-users of the products you document, such as their job titles and where they work.</p><fig><title>Linkedin.com</title></fig><p>Facebook, which originally allowed only college students to register on the site, has become hugely popular with over 200 million active participants, two-thirds of whom are not currently college students. Since it is the most widely used social networking site, based on minutes spent on it per month according to Nielson Online, you should observe Facebook for trends and usage patterns.<fn><p> http://blog.nielsen.com/nielsenwire/online_mobile/time-spent-on-facebook-up-700-but-myspace-still-tops-for-video/</p></fn> </p><fig><title>Facebook.com</title></fig></body></subsection></subsection><subsection id="d5e1269"><title>Discussions</title><body><p outputclass="tag_keywords">forum, board, email list, <indexterm>mailing lists<indexterm>community-based content</indexterm></indexterm>mailing list, instant messaging<indexterm>instant messaging (IM)</indexterm></p><p>For technical writers who are already affiliated with customer support, the idea of joining customer support <indexterm>moderation<indexterm>forums</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>discussions about content<indexterm>in forums</indexterm></indexterm>forums or moderating and joining in <indexterm>communities<indexterm>conversations in</indexterm></indexterm>conversations there is not a new one. Valuable relationships and much needed information are abundant in these online communities. Starting out by communicating on forums or <indexterm>boards<indexterm>message</indexterm></indexterm>boards is an excellent way to establish yourself as part of the user community. This section contains additional information on conversation starting and sustaining tools.</p></body><subsection id="d5e1301"><title>Instant messages</title><body><p>Online <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>instant messaging</indexterm></indexterm>instant messenger services such as Yahoo<indexterm>Yahoo</indexterm>, MSN<indexterm>MSN</indexterm>, AIM<indexterm>AIM</indexterm>, Skype<indexterm>Skype</indexterm>, or universally available <indexterm>discussions about content<indexterm>in IM</indexterm></indexterm>IM<indexterm>IM (Instant Messaging)</indexterm> clients such as Trillian<indexterm>Trillian</indexterm> or <indexterm>Meebo</indexterm>Meebo<indexterm>Meebo</indexterm> enable you to be available to customers directly. Instant messaging clients sometimes include <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>video</indexterm></indexterm>video and screen-sharing capabilities which is extremely useful for collaboration and explanation. </p><p>In her Agile<indexterm>Agile development</indexterm> Tech Writer blog post,<fn><p> http://ffeathers.wordpress.com/2008/01/20/the-agile-technical-writer/</p></fn> Sarah Maddox talks about answering Instant Messages from all around the world and being available to others to assist or just share humorous stories. Just be sure to have a sense of when to be unavailable, or keep “office hours” if the instant messaging communication devices become too disruptive for you to get your work done. </p></body></subsection><subsection id="d5e1354"><title>Online forums and mailing lists</title><body><p>In a <indexterm>forums<indexterm>participating in</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>conversations<indexterm>forums</indexterm></indexterm>forum, people can post questions about a product in hopes of getting answers quickly. Many open source products use forums as their sole support mechanism. Forums allow anyone to respond to a post or write a post. Complex forum software allows for HTML editing and emoticons in the text or signatures and has fully-featured notification and moderation systems. Community features include rating systems for each post or reply, avatars or profiles representing an online identity, private messaging, and even an indication of which users are currently online so people can talk with one another. You can use forummatrix.org to compare the features available in different forum software offerings.</p><p>Many forums use point systems or other methods for earning ranks, company t-shirts, or even a registration to a user conference. In some systems, you can vote on the helpfulness of an answer or thank another forum member for helping you. Cory Doctorow<indexterm>Doctorow, Cory</indexterm>‘s science fiction book, <i>Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom</i> contains a concept called <indexterm>whuffie</indexterm>whuffie—a reputation-based currency that emerges after all of society’s other needs are met for free. <indexterm>Hunt, Tara</indexterm>Tara Hunt<indexterm>Tara Hunt</indexterm> has a book called <i>The </i><indexterm>Whuffie Factor, The</indexterm><i>Whuffie Factor</i>, about the idea of whuffie to build online communities for business improvement. There are others building systems for online community reputation building. Yahoo Developer Network contains a library of design patterns for reputation solutions.<fn><p> http://developer.yahoo.com/ypatterns/parent.php?pattern=reputation</p></fn> <indexterm>forums<indexterm>earning rankings in</indexterm></indexterm>Forums are an accessible way to view and measure whuffie in an online system. </p><p>In <ph>Figure 14</ph>, compare Guru status to Enthusiast­—Guru has more stars, likely earned with “whuffie” equivalent on the forum, such as the number of times they’ve been thanked per post.</p><fig><title>Online reputation system</title></fig></body></subsection><subsection id="d5e1409"><title>Online meetings</title><body><p>Several online tools make formal presentations and meetings easier to host and facilitate. Two-way <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>meetings</indexterm></indexterm>conversations as well as multiple participant conversations can be held with voice, chat, and even presentation slides or white boards shared with all participants. WebEx, GoToMeeting, Campfire, and Dim-dim are just a few examples available. </p></body></subsection></subsection><subsection id="d5e1418"><title>Mashups</title><body><p outputclass="tag_keywords">Mashups, multimedia, machinima<indexterm>machinima</indexterm></p><p>A <indexterm>mashups</indexterm><indexterm>content<indexterm>combining</indexterm></indexterm>mashup is a recombination of two or more sources of data to create a new deliverable or service. A classic example of a mashup is a map mashup, in which map data is overlaid with other data, such as favorite restaurant locations or data from event planning software that shows you which conference centers are booked for which dates, overlaid on a hybrid street and satellite image map that you can zoom in or move around. For example, you can <indexterm>search<indexterm>in mashups</indexterm></indexterm>search for a Nintendo <indexterm>Wii</indexterm>Wii for sale near you with combined data sources at wiinearby.com. </p><p>Part of the concept of social media is that data can be recombined in innovative ways. Michael <indexterm>Priestly, Michael</indexterm>Priestly demonstrated how different DITA-based feeds can be recombined in different deliverables with the <indexterm>IBM<indexterm>Custom Content Assembler</indexterm></indexterm>IBM <indexterm>Custom Content Assembler, IBM</indexterm>Custom Content Assembler using DITA feeds for Lotus product documentation.<fn><p> http://www-10.lotus.com/ldd/ltieteamblog.nsf/dx/custom-content-assembler</p></fn> DITA is an XML-based architecture for authoring, producing, and delivering technical information. Users select and oy want in a custom “book” and the user-created compilation is both searchable and reusable. A similar capability is available in the Remix area of the FLOSS Manuals website at http://en.flossmanuals.net/remix. To make a manual remix, you select a group of topics and then drag and drop the topics (chapters) onto the “remix box.” Like the DITA-based Custom Content Assembler from IBM, you can export to PDF or HTML. Several years ago <indexterm>Microsoft<indexterm>online user assistance</indexterm></indexterm>Microsoft introduced a powerful format and data display mashup in their online user assistance—a hyperlink that opens a dialog box to complete a task instead of just linking to a web page that might contain a form. Although this sort of mashup is simply a way of helping a visitor choose what to display or activate, its immediate involvement of the visitor brings it into the category of social media.</p></body><subsection id="d5e1463"><title>Mashup example</title><body><p>The <indexterm>FLOSS Manuals<indexterm>remixing content</indexterm></indexterm>FLOSS Manuals remix I built for the One Laptop per Child project enabled us to write separate manuals for the hardware and software, plus we could deliver HTML <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>mashups in</indexterm></indexterm>help that shipped with several thousand laptops around the world. </p><p>The remix is also used to export to “widgets” that can be embedded in HTML pages to populate <indexterm>content<indexterm>mashups</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content<indexterm>integrating</indexterm></indexterm>content on other websites outside of FLOSS Manuals. See <ph>Figure 15</ph> for an example of the FLOSS Manuals remix interface.</p><fig><title>FLOSS Manuals REMIX feature</title></fig></body></subsection></subsection><subsection id="d5e1494"><title>Photos, video, media</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>content<indexterm>video</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>video</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p outputclass="tag_keywords">photo sharing, video<indexterm>video<indexterm>sharing</indexterm></indexterm> sharing, viral video</p><p>For products that need visual explanations, you could post photos<indexterm>photos</indexterm> to Flickr or <indexterm>video<indexterm>social media tool</indexterm></indexterm>videos to <indexterm>You Tube</indexterm>You Tube to demonstrate certain tasks or show time-saving techniques. If you use tagging<indexterm>tagging<indexterm>media</indexterm></indexterm> on Flickr, you can have users contribute their own screenshots with annotations about the customization they’ve done to your product. An example is an iPhone<indexterm>iPhone</indexterm> screenshot that shows a row of icons that the user has customized, along with how-to information imbedded in the screenshot. </p><p>The idea of “<indexterm>video<indexterm>viral</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>going viral</indexterm>going <indexterm>viral, going</indexterm>viral” with a video seems much more like marketing alignment than technical support alignment, so it may not be useful to your particular application, but it is good to know what the concept of something “viral” is. Going viral means that people are spreading a video, image or text by communication means using Internet web sites or email messages. Content may go viral because of exposure on a popular blog like boingboing.net, like the Burger King chicken letting people play a flash animation to “have it your way” at www.subservientchicken.com. I don’t believe going viral is a necessary goal for end-user documentation or for building a community around a wiki. But, for <indexterm>social networking<indexterm>integrating with documentation</indexterm></indexterm>technical marketing material, you would be glad to have a link to a white paper or a tip of the day go viral on Twitter. For example, <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>vehicle for "going viral"</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter posts can reach many people through the “<indexterm>retweet (RT)</indexterm><indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>retweet</indexterm></indexterm>retweet” feature where people send a copy of a twitter post along with the label “RT” and an attribution to the original poster. If you are so fortunate to create a viral link or video, ensure it’s accurate and helpful to your users before it gets 12 million views on You Tube. Due to the speed of forwarding, “going viral” can be as dangerous as it is useful for instruction. </p></body><subsection id="d5e1559"><title>Media example</title><body><p>You Tube is a video-sharing site that converts uploaded videos of any format into Flash-based videos that are easily played back on the web site. People can also embed videos from You Tube onto other web sites. <ph>Figure 16</ph> shows instructions for installing a bulk ink system for a printer.<fn><p> http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6c_a565qXxg</p></fn> Interestingly, by creating a video response to another video You Tube users “talk back” to each other, and comments on videos spark discussions.</p><fig><title>youtube.com </title></fig></body></subsection></subsection><subsection id="d5e1573"><title>Virtual content</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>conversations<indexterm>virtual</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>virtual</indexterm><indexterm>content<indexterm>virtual</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>virtual</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p outputclass="tag_keywords">virtual reality<indexterm>virtual reality</indexterm>, Second Life<indexterm>Second Life</indexterm></p><p>Training organizations are already finding the value in offering training<indexterm>training</indexterm> programs on Second Life, where people can gather with avatars that represent their personalities online. Second Life is a virtual three-dimensional environment where users create the buildings, land, and entire environment as well as clothing for avatars that represent them in the virtual <indexterm>communities<indexterm>virtual</indexterm></indexterm>community. Once in Second Life, users connect, socialize, chat, and interact with each other in the visual three-dimensional world.</p><p>For products that need demonstration visually there may be value for developing a training area in Second Life, but you need to consider development costs. You may also find that the risk of “griefers<indexterm>griefers</indexterm>” tearing down your virtual training environment is greater than the efforts spent in creating the environment. Also consider the maintenance costs of virtual training environments, and whether the expertise will be available for future modifications to the training curriculum or coursework. </p><fig><title>Second Life auditorium-style meeting room<fn><p> http://www.flickr.com/photos/krossbow/2717822171/</p></fn> </title></fig></body><subsection id="d5e1613"><title>Virtual world examples</title><body><p>Second Life contains learning areas such as the auditorium in <ph>Figure 17</ph> used by Discovery Education. The virtual screen on display is called a Smartboard. </p><p>The three-dimensional nature of the world is shown in <ph>Figure 18</ph> at a seated gathering of students. People design avatars to represent themselves in the virtual world, and you can see the body language indicated by the avatar leaning over to talk to an avatar in another chair in the figure.</p><fig><title>Second Life informal graduate student meeting<fn><p> http://www.flickr.com/photos/pathfinderlinden/157712296/</p></fn> </title></fig></body></subsection></subsection></subsection><subsection id="d5e1631"><title>Learning about social media</title><body><p>Finding a definition for a word like “wiki” can be difficult due to the proliferation of the word wiki used in web pages that may not be relevant to the topic of wikis. From Cookiepedia to Wookiepedia, there are many wikis in use that may interfere with discovering the definition that suits your content’s needs. One method for searching for a definition of an unfamiliar term is to use the <indexterm>Google<indexterm>define- command</indexterm></indexterm>Google <indexterm>definitions, searching for</indexterm><i>define:</i> command. For example, in the Google search box type “define: wiki” to get a list of web pages that offer definitions for the word “wiki.” </p><p>You also learn best about social media and tools for the social web by trying them yourself. If your company does not have a need to use these tools yet, try them for personal uses or as a volunteer for a non-profit cause.</p></body><subsection id="d5e1648"><title>Evaluating newcomers on these content scenes</title><body><p>Whether you started with LinkedIn<indexterm>LinkedIn</indexterm> or Facebook<indexterm>Facebook</indexterm>, you probably learned about online <indexterm>social media<indexterm>tools</indexterm></indexterm>profile sites only to be stymied after receiving <indexterm>Naymz</indexterm>Naymz<indexterm>Naymz</indexterm> or Spock<indexterm>Spock</indexterm> invitations<indexterm>invitations to in-person events</indexterm> that spread like wild fire. How can you evaluate all these newcomers and determine which ones have any return on the time spent with them?</p><p>Here are some ideas for <indexterm>return on investment (ROI)<indexterm>evaluating social media tools</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>evaluation<indexterm>of new social media tools</indexterm></indexterm>evaluating newly available tools: </p><ul><li>Determine which types of people, such as small business owners or representatives of a corporate brand, are using certain tools, and specifically ask them what gains or returns they are seeing from that specific tool. </li><li>Figure out your goals with <indexterm>social networking<indexterm>tools</indexterm></indexterm>social networking, which will help you figure out if you need to be on every single network, or if a specific few that are directly related to your goals are the ones to focus on.</li><li>Trust just a few people’s opinions on a tool—if they give it a thumbs up, then try it for yourself. This technique may work well if a relatively obscure product becomes suddenly popular, but you do not have the time to determine the usefulness for yourself, your company, and your documentation.</li><li>Realize that not all social networking tools need to be evaluated with an enterprise or corporate application in mind. In some cases, a try it and see grassroots<indexterm>grassroots efforts</indexterm> effort can reveal much more about the tool than a few people evaluating with a checklist.</li><li>Be cautious when you experiment to find out where your users have their <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>locating</indexterm></indexterm>conversations. The strength of a community is more important than the tools used to reach that community.</li></ul><p>Management may want more specific criteria for determining a <indexterm>Web 2.0<indexterm>proving business value</indexterm></indexterm>Web 2.0 tool’s fit for the organization or for your end-users, but evaluating social tools is not always the same as measuring enterprise <indexterm>collaboration<indexterm>tools that enable</indexterm></indexterm>collaboration tools. For example, you may need to be more experimental in your tests with social tools, and use them under the radar before you can prove the business use, although this is a risky strategy. Management may say, “We can’t expend resources chasing the latest fad.” Reasonable as that view of resource allocation may be, it may cause you to miss crucial conversations that might pop up during a pilot phase. Seizing the opportunity to engage with someone deeply may be more important than time and resource equations, but inappropriate or unsanctioned outreach may get you fired. </p><p>One newcomer to keep an eye on is <indexterm>Google<indexterm>Wave</indexterm></indexterm>Google Wave, a personal communication and collaboration tool that doesn’t easily fit into any of the previous categories for social web content. Rather than tracking disparate pieces of conversations and content from many different Internet sources, objects known as “waves” contain a complete thread of multimedia messages. Because the “wave” is XML-based, many possibilities abound for shared content, plus for collaboration, Google Wave reinvents email as we know it today.</p></body></subsection><subsection id="d5e1730"><title>User-generated content and community-generated content</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>communities<indexterm>content contributed by</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content contributed by</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p><indexterm>content<indexterm>user-generated</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content<indexterm>community-generated</indexterm></indexterm>We may think of feedback as a Web 2.0 phenomenon, but in fact, we can find examples of feedback mechanisms throughout the history of <indexterm>publishing<indexterm>feedback channels</indexterm></indexterm>publishing. Since publishing of content began, there have always been methods for incorporating feedback into the final product. Alan Porter describes in a blog post titled Publishing is not the Final Step,<fn><p> http://http://blogs.webworks.com/aporter/2008/06/27/why-publishing-is-no-longer-the-last-step-in-the-process/</p></fn> Shakespeare’s plays were modified each night based on audience <indexterm>participation<indexterm>audience</indexterm></indexterm>participation. The distributed work of the Oxford English Dictionary proposed in 1857 was to have contributors find quotations of a word’s use by combing through all of English literature including popular newspapers, magazines, and then submit the quote slips to the editor of the dictionary. New findings of a word’s use were brought into the next edition. </p><p>The key difference in today’s publishing landscape is that the speed at which feedback and findings can come in has been accelerating, and you need to be aware of the ways that information can come in. Users also have taken over some of the publishing themselves as blogs and wikis and powerful searching have made it incredibly easy for any user’s content to be noticed and helpful. </p><p><indexterm>user-generated content</indexterm>User-generated content is what you find in <indexterm>forums<indexterm>user-generated content in</indexterm></indexterm>forums and <indexterm>mailing lists<indexterm>user-generated content</indexterm></indexterm>mailing lists. It is likely to show up on a <indexterm>search<indexterm>accessing documentation through</indexterm></indexterm>search for information and troubleshooting. User-generated content varies widely in quality and may be outdated quickly. Readers of user-generated content need to understand “Caveat Lector”—Reader Beware.</p><p><indexterm>communities<indexterm>content contributed by</indexterm></indexterm>Community-generated content has a different <indexterm>community-generated content<indexterm>quality</indexterm></indexterm>quality bar. While a <indexterm>communities<indexterm>goals</indexterm></indexterm>community may have a mailing list as its primary form of communication, it’s likely the community is not using the mailing list itself to offer how-tos or detailed troubleshooting. Instead, a community, since it is defined with a common goal, may have a more formal means of content creation as one of the means to achieving that goal.</p><p>Individual users are likely faster at posting informal, conversational responses to specific questions. But a community may have a more thought-out approach to the big picture of what needs to be created, content-wise. I am not just talking about written content. I’m also thinking of Wordpress.tv, where the site was “seeded” with twenty or so professionally-created video tutorials, but then the community members’ contributions were also accepted. While it may take a while to create that content, and it might not have a professional voice-over, it is good enough to help another community member learn a particular WordPress technique. And, by leading with video offerings that gave an example of the quality level and expected pacing or chunking of the information, the community has a standard to meet.</p><p>Both types of content often offer “good enough” answers to questions or advice about the best way to proceed with a particular solution. Good enough is judged by the reader. One type of content generation is not more professional than another. Rather, the usefulness of the content vetted by a community is the criteria for judging its quality.</p><p>In my view, a set of community-generated content may be of higher quality than content created by individuals who do not share a common goal or want the same outcome. I would draw a distinction between user-generated content and community-generated content due to the motivations of a community being more aligned than a group labeled “users” who may be motivated by severely opposing aims. Chapter 4, Community and Documentation, explores community-generated content further.</p></body></subsection></subsection></chapter>