<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:topic" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="x7-6000"><title>Contributors</title><body><p><ph outputclass="cmbx-12x-x-207">Contributors</ph>
</p><p>Beezer, David.   Belarmine Preparatory School, Tacoma   <br/>Beezer, Robert.   University of Puget Sound   http://buzzard.ups.edu/<br/>Black, Chris.      <br/>Braithwaite, David.   Chicago, Illinois   <br/>Bucht, Sara.   University of Puget Sound   <br/>Canfield, Steve.   University of Puget Sound   <br/>Hubert, Dupont.   Créteil, France   <br/>Fellez, Sarah.   University of Puget Sound   <br/>Fickenscher, Eric.   University of Puget Sound   <br/>Jackson, Martin.   University of Puget Sound   http://www.math.ups.edu/˜martinj<br/>Kessler, Ivan.   University of Puget Sound   <br/>Kreher, Don.   Michigan Technological University   http://www.math.mtu.edu/˜kreher/<br/>Hamrick, Mark.   St. Louis University   <br/>Linenthal, Jacob.   University of Puget Sound   <br/>Million, Elizabeth.   University of Puget Sound   <br/>Osborne, Travis.   University of Puget Sound   <br/>Riegsecker, Joe.   Middlebury, Indiana   joepye (at) pobox (dot) com<br/>Perkel, Manley.   University of Puget Sound   <br/>Phelps, Douglas.   University of Puget Sound   <br/>Shoemaker, Mark.   University of Puget Sound   <br/>Toth, Zoltan.      http://zoli.web.elte.hu<br/>Zimmer, Andy.   University of Puget Sound   <br/>
                                                                          

                                                                          
</p></body></topic>