<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:topic" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="x69-352000"><title>Appendix P  Preliminaries</title><body><p>   This appendix contains important ideas about complex numbers, sets, and
the logic and techniques of forming proofs. It is not meant to be read
straight through, but you should head here when you need to review these
ideas.
</p><p>   We choose to expand the set of scalars from the real numbers,
<d4p_eqn_inline><d4p_MathML><m:math xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" overflow="scroll"><m:msup><m:mrow><m:mi>ℝ</m:mi></m:mrow><m:mrow/></m:msup></m:math></d4p_MathML></d4p_eqn_inline>, to the set of
complex numbers, <d4p_eqn_inline><d4p_MathML><m:math xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline" overflow="scroll"><m:msup><m:mrow><m:mi>ℂ</m:mi></m:mrow><m:mrow/></m:msup></m:math></d4p_MathML></d4p_eqn_inline>.
So basic operations with complex numbers (like addition and division) will be
necessary. This can be safely postponed until your arrival in <xref keyref="fcla-xml-2.30li28/section.O">Section O</xref>, and a
refresher before <xref keyref="fcla-xml-2.30li46/chapter.E">Chapter E</xref> would be a good idea as well.
</p><p>   Sets are extremely important in all of mathematics, but maybe you have not
had much exposure to the basic operations. Check out <xref keyref="fcla-xml-2.30li70/section.SET">Section SET</xref>. The text will
send you here frequently as well. Visit often.
</p><p>   This book is as much about <ph outputclass="cmti-12">doing </ph>mathematics as it is about linear algebra.
The “Proof Techniques” are vignettes about logic, types of theorems, structure
of proofs, or just plain old-fashioned advice about how to <ph outputclass="cmti-12">do </ph>advanced
mathematics. The text will frequently point to one of these techniques
in advance of their first use, and for specific instructions there will be
additional references. If you find constructing proofs difficult (we all did once),
then head back here and browse through the advice for second or third
readings.
</p></body></topic>