<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2012, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<?Pub Inc?>
<concept id="AboutTheCanonWirelessFlashSystem-90366BF2" xml:lang="en">
<title>About the Canon Wireless Flash System</title>
<shortdesc>The Canon wireless flash system enables you to control
multiple Speedlite flashes by using a <term>pre-flash</term>. The
preflash sends information to all flashes such as sync mode and firing
power.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata><keywords><indexterm>wireless flash</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Flashes in a wireless system consist of one master and many slaves.
The master can be either a Speedlite or the ST-2 Wireless Flash Controller.
Not all Speedlites can be configured to be a master. For example,
the 580 EX II can be a master, but not the 430 EX II. Any Speedlite
can be a slave, however.</p>
<p>You configure a Canon external flash to become a master flash by
making settings on the flash itself or by adjusting flash settings
in the camera. When an external flash is acting as a master, it can
control any number of slave flashes. You configure an external flash
to be a slave by adjusting settings on the flash.</p>
<p>Each slave flash can be assigned to a group. The Canon wireless
system supports three groups: A, B, and C. You can control the flash
power of each group separately by making settings on the master flash
or in the camera.</p>
<section><title>Manual Flash</title><p>When Speedlites are set in
manual mode, you can control the power level of each group separately
from the camera or from the Speedlite control panel. Examples of power
levels include 1/1, 1/2, 1/4, 1/8, and so on, all the way to 1/128.</p
></section>
<section><title>E-TTL Flash</title><p>When flashes are set in E-TTL
mode, you adjust the power levels of each group by setting power <term
>ratios</term>. You can set the ratio of the group A level to the
group B as 1:1, 1:2, 1:4 and so on, or as 1:1: 2:1, 4:1 and so on.</p
></section>
<section><title>Examples</title><p><xref format="dita"
href="#AboutTheCanonWirelessFlashSystem-90366BF2/ClassicTwo-LightSetup-9F9B1DC5"
scope="local" type="example"></xref> and <xref format="dita"
href="#AboutTheCanonWirelessFlashSystem-90366BF2/example-148-9F9C64A4"
scope="local" type="example"></xref> describe some sample multiple-light
setups.</p><?Pub Caret 2?></section>
<example id="ClassicTwo-LightSetup-9F9B1DC5"><title>Classic Two-Light
Setup, Off-Camera Flash, E-TTL Mode</title><p>In the classic off-camera
two-light setup, you use one flash as the key light, and one as the
fill light. The key light is the master, attached to the camera with
a long E-TTL cord, and is at camera-left at a 45 degree angle to the
subject.</p><note>By default, the master is always in group A.</note
><p>The fill light is at camera-right, also at a 45 degree angle and
is in Group B. The ratio of group A to group B is set to 2:1, so that
the key light is brighter than the fill light.</p></example>
<example id="example-148-9F9C64A4"><title>Three-Light Setup, Off-Camera
Flash, Manual Mode</title><p>This setup uses a key and fill light,
but also uses a rim light (or “hair light”) to separate the subject
from the background. The rim light is placed behind and above the
subject, and is in group C. All flashes are set to manual operation.
The key light’s power is set to 1/2, the fill light to 1/4, and the
rim light to 1/2. Because the  ST-2 Wireless Flash Controller can
control only two groups, you must use a Speedlite as the master.</p
></example>
</conbody>
</concept>
