<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2012, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<?Pub Inc?>
<task id="ConfiguringATwo-LightSetup-903679B5" xml:lang="en">
<title>Configuring a Two-Light Setup</title>
<shortdesc>In this setup, you use a Canon 580 EX II as the master
and a Canon 430 EX II as the slave. Both flashes are off-camera.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata><keywords><indexterm>two-light setup</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<taskbody>
<prereq>For this setup, a long E-TTL cable is required. This cable
plugs in to the hot shoe of your camera on one end, and the 580 EX
II on the other end. The effect is the same as if the 580 EX were
mounted in the hot shoe. In addition, two light stands are required.</prereq>
<context> In this scenario, the master serves as the key light, and
the slave as the fill light. Both flashes are mounted on stands. The
key light is to camera left, and the fill light to camera right, both
at a 45 degree angle to the subject.</context>
<steps>
<step><cmd>Turn on the 580 EX II and set it for wireless master mode
in E-TTL mode.</cmd>
<info>The master flash is in group A by default.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>Connect the 580 EX II to your camera hot show with the
E-TTL cable. Mount the assembly on a light stand.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Refer to the 580 EX II manual and place the flash in master
mode.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Turn on the 430 EX II and set it for wireless slave mode
in E-TTL mode. Configure it in Group B.</cmd>
<info>The focus-assist light blinks slowly when the flash is in slave
mode.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>Press the <uicontrol>Menu</uicontrol> button on your camera,
locate the <uicontrol>External Speedlite Control</uicontrol> menu
selection, and then choose <uicontrol>Flash function settings</uicontrol
>.</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>Set the Flash mode to ETTL and the flash group to A:B.</cmd>
</step>
<step><cmd>Set the A:B ration to 2:1</cmd></step>
<step id="TakeATestShotAndDetermineTheRelativ-DFF88459"><cmd>Take
a test shot and scrutinize the relative power of the key and fill
lights.</cmd></step>
<step id="AdjustRelativePowerByAdjustingTheRa-DFF887B7"><cmd>Adjust
relative power by adjusting the ratio of Group A to Group B.</cmd>
</step><?Pub Caret -2?>
<step><cmd>Repeats Steps <xref format="dita"
href="#ConfiguringATwo-LightSetup-903679B5/TakeATestShotAndDetermineTheRelativ-DFF88459"
scope="local" type="step"><?Pub _previewtext
text="No title at target; link text should be authored"?></xref> and <xref
format="dita"
href="#ConfiguringATwo-LightSetup-903679B5/AdjustRelativePowerByAdjustingTheRa-DFF887B7"
scope="local" type="step"><?Pub _previewtext
text="No title at target; link text should be authored"?></xref> until
you are satisfied with the image.</cmd></step>
</steps>
<example><title>Key Light to Fill Light Ratios</title><p>To obtain
subtle shadows for a flattering look that approaches a fashion image,
set the A to B ratio to 2:1. To obtain a more dramatic look that accentuates
highlights and shadows, set the ration to 4:1 or 8:1.</p></example>
</taskbody>
</task>
