<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_xcx_qr4_ym">
  <title>Running the Open Toolkit Through Jenkins</title>
  <shortdesc>How to set the various Ant command parameters so the Open Toolkit will work.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Jenkins comes out of the box with support for Ant. The only thing you may need to do is a one-time Ant installation task, which you do through the Jenkins management user interface--it's usually just a matter of choosing the Ant version you want (the latest is fine) and having Jenkins install it. You may need to restart the Jenkins server after doing this.</p>
    <p>Jenkins processes are "jobs". You set up a Jenkins job to perform specific processes under specific conditions, such as commits to your source code repository. A single job can do any number of things, but the simplest Jenkins DITA job would be to run the Open Toolkit against a single root map to generate a single output.</p>
    <p>Each Jenkins job has its own "workspace", which you typically populate by checking out files from a git or Subversion repository. For example, you can create a git repository, either within your local system (if this is all on one machine or within a closed network) or on a public git server like Github.</p>
    <p>Because your Jenkins job will need an Open Toolkit as well the DITA content to process with it, a typical solution is to either put a copy of the Open Toolkit into your documentation repository so that it's always there and you can configure it however you need to. Another option is to use Jenkin's multiple source code manager feature to have one repository for the Toolkit separate from your documentation repository. A third option is to simply have the Open Toolkit installed somewhere on the same server you're running the Jenkins job on and configure your job to use that Toolkit. However, putting the Toolkit in a source code repository makes it easy to maintain and manage as you need to change things (for example, deploying new Toolkit plugins or upgrading to a new version). It also makes it easy to test with different versions or builds of the Open Toolkit.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
