<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:reference" "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:reference">
<reference id="pubmap">
    <title>pubmap</title>
    <shortdesc><!-- For future use --></shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>pubmap</indexterm>
            <!-- sample from DITA langref
                    <indexterm>Topic elements<indexterm>abstract</indexterm>
				    </indexterm> -->
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <refbody>
        <refbodydiv outputclass="summary">
          <section id="summary">pubmap is a map type for a single publication. It includes the ability to specify publishing -specific metadata; to represent arbitrary single pages, such as often occur in fiction books before the main content; to include cover components. This module is an example of defining a specific map type that uses the publication map domain elements exclusively. The publication map domain elements can also be used in other map types as needed; there is no requirement to use the pubmap map element just to get publication map  components. This allows you to define completely different organizations of publication-specific topicref types. pubmap is a result of three related domains: one for elements (pubmapDomain), one for references to other maps (pubmapMaprefDomain), and one for metadata (pubmetadataDomain). In doing so, it overcomes some deficiencies of the bookmap map type: chapter topicrefs do not have to be within part topicrefs when a part topicref is used; a verbose set of metadata options are provided; pubmap-specific map references can be used; the content models can be extended as needed.</section>
      </refbodydiv>
        <refbodydiv outputclass="d4p">
          <section id="d4p">pubmap specializes from map. It is a useful starting point for new map types. And it serves both as a general publication map type and as an example of how to integrate and configure the publication map and publication metadata domains.</section>
      </refbodydiv>    	    
        <refbodydiv outputclass="contains">
         <section id="contains"/>
      </refbodydiv>
        <refbodydiv outputclass="contains-by">
         <section id="contains-by"/>
      </refbodydiv>    
        <refbodydiv outputclass="inheritance">
         <section id="inheritance">- map/map pubmap/pubmap</section>
      </refbodydiv>
        <refbodydiv outputclass="example1">
         <section id="example1"/>
      </refbodydiv>    	
        <refbodydiv outputclass="attributes">
         <section id="attributes"/>
      </refbodydiv>
        
    </refbody>
</reference>
