<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e256"><title>Syndicated content</title><body><p>podcast<indexterm>podcasts<indexterm>as syndicated content</indexterm></indexterm>, blog,
          web log, vlog<indexterm>vlog</indexterm>, video log<indexterm>video log</indexterm>, RSS,
          subscription, feeds, aggregation, news</p><p><indexterm>content<indexterm>syndicated</indexterm></indexterm>All of these terms are
          related to content that is updated regularly. <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>syndication</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>blogs<indexterm>description
              of</indexterm></indexterm>Blogs are typically text content that is updated often;
          sometimes additions are made multiple times a day. Blog entries range from a few sentences
          making a comment or linking to another site to fully developed essays. Blogs can be
          personal or professional with a lot of differences found in between. You can find the
          original definition of web blog and why it became blog on Jason <indexterm>Kottke,
            Jason</indexterm>Kottke’s blog.<fn>
            <p> http://kottke.org</p>
          </fn></p><p>Podcasts are <indexterm>content<indexterm>audio</indexterm></indexterm>audio<indexterm>audio<indexterm>podcasts</indexterm></indexterm> files that are posted regularly.
          Often podcasts are posted using blogging software, so there may be overlap between the two
          types. Podcasts are much like a radio show featuring interviews. </p><p>A vlog or <indexterm>content<indexterm>video</indexterm></indexterm>video<indexterm>video<indexterm>log, vlog</indexterm></indexterm> log<indexterm>video log</indexterm>
          involves regularly posted video content. An example is rocketboom.com, which was a news
          show featuring an amateur newscaster who became so popular she often had more viewers than
          the local news affiliates in her area.</p><p>So how does regularly updated web <indexterm>content<indexterm>up-to-date</indexterm></indexterm>content compare to your online <indexterm>help,
              online<indexterm>compared to blogs</indexterm></indexterm>help experience for your
          users? Have you already implemented an online help system with dynamic updates, or are you
          still tied to the software release schedule? As customers become more accustomed to the
          immediacy of blog updates, they may increasingly expect frequent updates. </p><p><indexterm>conversations<indexterm>blogs</indexterm></indexterm>Also, consider writing a
          blog yourself, from the viewpoint of dedicated technical writer, to increase awareness of
          your customers that you are a real person inside the company, working hard at providing
          accurate, relevant information. You can be part of the customer conversation that blogging
          provides. </p><p>While <indexterm>social media<indexterm>metrics</indexterm></indexterm>social media
            <indexterm>metrics<indexterm>blogging influence</indexterm></indexterm>metrics are still
          in their infancy, many studies show that the <indexterm>reach and influence (R and
            I)</indexterm>reach and <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>influence
            of</indexterm></indexterm>influence<indexterm>influence, measuring</indexterm> of
          bloggers can be and will be measured. For example, blogging about information development
          or architecture issues that you wrestle with in the name of high-quality documentation
          might stick out as a good selling point for your company’s product, giving the customer
          confidence that you are giving your best towards helping them solve business problems. </p><p>One example of a blog that gives the technical writer a voice in the <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>corporate advantage</indexterm></indexterm>corporate world is my
          former blog on <indexterm>blogs, examples<indexterm>talk.bmc.com</indexterm></indexterm>talk.bmc.com. Any salesperson would get very excited
          if a potential customer reading the conversations at talk.bmc.com led to a one-on-one
          contact. White paper downloads are <indexterm>metrics<indexterm>social media
              effectiveness</indexterm></indexterm>tracked through the links from the blog authors
          as well, and blog readers are likely also white paper consumers, doing their homework with
          searches. Industry analysts also read talk.bmc.com, and got to know some of the bloggers,
          which in turn helps the analysts understand the goals of the business and interpret the
          values and strategies that the company employs to serve customer needs. Analysts’
          attention is sought by public relations and marketing departments. </p><p>Another recent trend is the use of <indexterm>content<indexterm>blogs</indexterm></indexterm>blogs for describing new features in <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>product information in</indexterm></indexterm>products, especially
          web applications. Examples are the new Google Calendar features described in a blog
            entry<fn>
            <p> http://gmailblog.blogspot.com/2009/01/get-calendar-on-your-google-desktop.html</p>
          </fn> and SmugMug’s blog<fn>
            <p> http://blogs.smugmug.com/release-notes/</p>
          </fn> where the entire blog is dedicated to <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>release information
              in</indexterm></indexterm>release information.</p><p>The <indexterm>Jing online help</indexterm>Jing product’s <indexterm>search<indexterm>online help and</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>help, online<indexterm>created in
              blogging tool</indexterm></indexterm>online <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>Jing
              example</indexterm></indexterm>help<fn>
            <p> http://help.jingproject.com/</p>
          </fn> is written and maintained in <indexterm>Movable Type</indexterm>Movable Type, a
          blogging tool. Jing is a relatively new screencasting tool. Many blogging tools can be
          used as content management systems, and it appears that Jing’s writers see blog engines
          that way too. The writers are taking advantage of some nice built-in features, such as a
            <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>searching within</indexterm></indexterm>Search field
          at the top of every page, and the Categories link at the bottom of each help topic give an
          automated collection of topics. They have just one “table of contents” for the help
          system, and that’s the top page, but it works nicely as a site map. The overall effect is
          a very simple and elegant user assistance or support system.</p><p>A blog can work well for release notes. Give your product some “<indexterm>Google<indexterm>"juice"</indexterm></indexterm>Google juice”—the mysterious quality
          that raises the ranking of a page in Google’s search—and generate buzz for new features by
          giving other bloggers a well-understood infrastructure to link to you and give your
          entries trackbacks. </p><p>This model works best when your release notes are not the primary vehicle for reporting
          bug fixes, since the open, honest style of blogging may reveal more than your marketing
          department would like. Separating feature information from bug reporting may help you
          “spin” features without guilt, while keeping the information factual.</p><p>Syndication and RSS<indexterm>RSS (Really Simple Syndication)<indexterm>described</indexterm></indexterm></p><p>The <ph>RSS</ph> acronym stands for Really Simple Syndication. RSS and <ph>Atom</ph>, a
          similar standard, are XML-based formats for distributing and gathering content from
          sources across the Web, including newspapers, magazines, wikis, and blogs. This
          syndication ability is the real beauty of blogs and podcasts. You write a blog entry or
          upload a podcast or edit a wiki page, and people get notified when that new content is
          posted. According to <indexterm>Technorati</indexterm>Technorati, blog subscriptions were
          doubling every five months in 2006.<fn>
            <p> http://technorati.com/weblog/2006/02/81.html, see
              http://technorati.com/blogging/state-of-the-blogosphere/ for more recent data.</p>
          </fn> This subscription technology is a big deal. </p><p>RSS, one of the few three-letter acronyms in blogging and podcasting, is not all that
          technical. RSS and feeds are nothing more than notifications and alerts for new items, be
          they new blog posts, new or changed wiki pages, or even package tracking notification. </p><p>RSS<indexterm>RSS (Really Simple Syndication)<indexterm>aggregators</indexterm></indexterm> aggregators are tools that manage a collection of
          subYou can find popular RSS aggregators or readers on the web.<fn>
            <p> http://blogspace.com/rss/readers</p>
          </fn> The first aggregators for reading blogs<indexterm>blogs<indexterm>syndication</indexterm></indexterm> were standalone readers (Sharpreader is an
          example) and then web-based readers were created. Bloglines<indexterm>Bloglines</indexterm> and Google Reader are popular web-based readers, and some
          browsers have this ability built-in. Feed reader tools often offer a combination of
          notifications via email, mobile devices, or on the web. </p><p>For audio content, like podcasts, people can load an audio file to a player such as an
            <indexterm>iPod</indexterm>iPod, or listen using an application such as iTunes on their
          computer, or just read about the podcast before deciding whether to download the audio or
          not. How people want to listen to content then dictates which feed they choose. </p><p><indexterm>Feedburner</indexterm><indexterm>Google<indexterm>Feedburner</indexterm></indexterm>Feedburner
          is a Google-owned tool that offers subscription pages that contain buttons for the most
          popular aggregators. All you have to do is click one of the buttons to subscribe to a feed
          with that particular aggregator. shows examples of the buttons.</p><p>Subscriber aggregator buttons</p><p>On different sites, several different feeds are available that allow you to track
          subscriptions and gather detailed statistics like what browser a reader uses to access the
          site, whether it’s a robot that’s crawling the site, and so on. </p><p>For podcasts, sometimes there are different icons that represent different
            audio<indexterm>audio<indexterm>accessing content through</indexterm></indexterm> feeds.
          For example, you can subscribe to a feed that downloads the audio files directly to an
          iPod or other audio player. Another RSS<indexterm>RSS (Really Simple
              Syndication)<indexterm>for podcasts</indexterm></indexterm> feed downloads the
            audio<indexterm>audio<indexterm>feeds</indexterm></indexterm> files directly to a
          computer and plays them in iTunes<indexterm>iTunes</indexterm>. Yet another feed offered
          by some podcasters gives text-only summaries of the podcast containing notes for each
          podcast. People subscribe to the summary feed when they want to know about the podcast
          topic and contents before downloading the audio file. </p><p>If you click an RSS icon, your browser handles that type of file in a default manager
          unless the website has set it up with another page link. For example, you could go to a
          page that contains aggregator subscribe buttons. If you right-click the RSS icon, you can
          copy and paste the feed URL into your aggregator. </p><p>I have been completely amazed by the ways people are using <indexterm>RSS (Really Simple
              Syndication)<indexterm>variety of uses</indexterm></indexterm>RSS for notifications.
          At a South By SouthWest Interactive (SXSWi) session I attended in 2006, the panelists
          presented a list of sample ideas you can do with RSS and a feed reader<indexterm>feed
            readers</indexterm> such as Bloglines<indexterm>Bloglines</indexterm> or Google
          Reader.</p><ul><li>Get new podcasts or video<indexterm>video<indexterm>downloading through
                feeds</indexterm></indexterm>s by subscribing to a feed on <indexterm>iTunes</indexterm>iTunes or Apple TV so that you automatically get updates downloaded
            to your iPod or Apple TV. RSS subscriptions are not just for text notifications.</li><li>Find out the most popular blog entries and topics with RSS—aggregation of information
            is crucial for this goal. You can enter a product name and continuously get information
            when a new item is created with that keyword. </li><li>Find time-critical information or immerse yourself in a point-in-time. On some feed
            readers you can search within a specific date range as well. Bloglines has added a
            longer time span to their return content feature, allowing you to read feeds from 2001. </li><li>Get updates to classified ads based on a <indexterm>search<indexterm>RSS
                and</indexterm></indexterm>search or a category. For example, if you are seeking a
            specific pre-owned electronic device for a cheaper price on craigslist, you can search
            for that keyword within the category, then copy the RSS feed link and put it into your
            feed reader. Any time a new item is added to the craigslist classified ads, the
            notification appears in your feed reader.</li><li>Follow group <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>following through
                syndication</indexterm></indexterm>conversations by RSS instead of using email and
            clogging up your inbox with multiple messages. Yahoo<indexterm>Yahoo</indexterm> Groups
            offers RSS feeds for conversations, so you can read them from one place such as Google
            Reader.</li><li>Track packages using RSS with a website like simpletracker.com. Some eBay resellers
            say that subscription-based <indexterm>email<indexterm>tracking</indexterm></indexterm>tracking is a useful tool rather than constantly using
              <indexterm>email<indexterm>compared to RSS</indexterm></indexterm>email messages for
            notification.</li><li>Use <indexterm>RSS (Really Simple Syndication)<indexterm>package tracking
                through</indexterm></indexterm>RSS subscriptions as an <indexterm>email<indexterm>compared to RSS</indexterm></indexterm>email subscription alternative for product
            newsletters. It still requires customers to opt-in, but they can choose not to be
            notified via email message.</li><li>Use an RSS calendar to turn calendar dates into RSS notifications for birthdays,
            anniversaries, and so on. The website is http://rsscalendar.com/.</li><li>Give notification for course information via an RSS feed.</li><li>Create keyword or hashtag searches with <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>searching
                within</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter’s <indexterm>search<indexterm>in
                Twitter</indexterm></indexterm>search engine<fn>
              <p> http://search.twitter.com</p>
            </fn> and subscribe to RSS<indexterm>RSS (Really Simple Syndication)<indexterm>following
                group discussions</indexterm></indexterm> notification for competitive intelligence
            and other specialized information, and receive notifications only when the Tweet is in
            your favored language. Language filtering is especially useful for a product name like
            the one I’ve worked with, iMIS, which is a Spanish word that tends to show up in Spanish
            language posts. Restricting the results to English-only posts eliminates the
            non-relevant Spanish content.</li><li>Search for job leads on indeed.com with RSS<indexterm>RSS (Really Simple
                Syndication)<indexterm>for job listings</indexterm></indexterm> notification; you
            subscribe to search<indexterm>search<indexterm>RSS and</indexterm></indexterm> terms,
            and search for your product to view the job descriptions of your typical end-user. For
            example, search for Remedy in Arkansas and 29 job descriptions show up, but if I
            subscribe to the RSS feed for that search, I can be notified when each new job listing
            appears. </li></ul><p>Think of how a subscription-based notification on end-user documentation changes could
          help your customers. Would a subscription to release notes additions help your customers?
          You do need your customers to want the constant updates, but since they control the amount
          of notificns, they can choose the interval and amount of updates they receive.</p><p>Syndication examples</p><p>Blogs written by writers, such as this blog by the lead writer for InDesign and InCopy at
          Adobe, Bob Bringhurst, can give writers an opportunity for further explanation of a
          feature. A subscription to this blog gives people information, updates to the <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>blogging about</indexterm></indexterm>help, and general
          tips.</p><p>blogs.adobe.com/indesigndocs</p><p>By subscribing to updates, readers of this Embarcadero blog by the technical publications
          manager <indexterm>Elling, Dee</indexterm>Dee Elling can find out when a new set of
            <indexterm>help, online<indexterm>blogging about</indexterm></indexterm>documentation is
          released, such as the PDF files that this writer announces in this blog post. She also
          asks the readers about their favorite formats and invites feedback through her blog.</p><p>blogs.embarcadero.com/deeelling/</p></body></subsection>