<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e842"><title>Presence and location</title><body><p>BrightKite, Latitude, Twinkle, geo-spatial location awareness, poke<indexterm>poke</indexterm>, superpoke<indexterm>superpoke</indexterm>, status</p><p><indexterm>presence, online</indexterm>You may find it odd that there’s a function on web
          applications like Facebook to “poke” another user. On Twitter, you can “<indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>nudging</indexterm></indexterm>nudge” someone. It is basically a
          mechanism to get someone’s attention or to find out if they are online or not, indicated
          by poking you back. </p><p>Another presence or location item is the <indexterm>GPS</indexterm>GPS-based location
          indication that some web applications build in and integrate with GPS hardware to let
          others know if they’re mobile, or even their location as they travel. This data is called
            <indexterm>geospatial data</indexterm>geospatial data and content systems that know
          where someone is reading content can help you analyze the <indexterm>content<indexterm>localization</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>localization,
          analyzing</indexterm>localization or translation of content. For example, if you notice an
          upsurge in questions about a particular help topic coming from the Ottowa, Canada area,
          you could look for French-Canadian culture issues with the content and fix the issue.</p><p><indexterm>TripIt</indexterm>TripIt and <indexterm>Dopplr</indexterm>Dopplr are examples
          of travel web applications where you share your travels with friends and coworkers in the
          hopes of keeping others informed about where you are so that in-person meetings can
          happen. Mobility and <indexterm>status, indicating</indexterm>status knowledge might be
          useful if you attend your user’s conferences and want to set up face-to-face gatherings. </p><p>Presence example</p><p>By enabling more real-world interaction with a web application that collects location
          data and makes it meaningful to people, Dopplr (sounds like doppler) gives you trip
          tracking and trip planning abilities. This screenshot shows a map of my trips over a
          year’s time. It integrates with popular social networking sites like Facebook and LinkedIn
          to tell my network about my current location, and indicate upcoming trips that I have
          planned.</p><p>dopplr.com</p></body></subsection>