<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e115"><title>Shared content</title><body><p><indexterm>communities<indexterm>content contributed by</indexterm></indexterm>community
          content, user-based content, user-generated<indexterm>user-generated content</indexterm>,
          publishing, participatory media<indexterm>participatory media</indexterm></p><p><indexterm>content<indexterm>community-generated</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content<indexterm>sharing</indexterm></indexterm>If
          you study social media, you’ll see that production and distribution changes are at the
          heart of these emerging methods. Naturally, another concept or skill that technical
          writers know about is creating content. What is interesting about the recent mind shift
          towards <indexterm>social media<indexterm>community
          development</indexterm></indexterm>community content<indexterm>community-generated
              content<indexterm>developing</indexterm></indexterm> is the thought that “everyone’s a
          technical writer.” In reality, of course, everyone is not a paid technical writer by
          profession, and hopefully paid writers have the skills, experience, and practice that set
          them apart from the rest of the crowd. </p><p>But, where user-based <indexterm>content<indexterm>user-generated</indexterm></indexterm>content lives, there is also a passion for the
          product, and customer forums and fan-built web sites display that passion for all to see.
          Consumer-generated media, as it is also called, can refer to many different kinds of media
          as well, not just written text, but video, audio<indexterm>audio<indexterm>consumer-generated media</indexterm></indexterm>, and images. </p><p>A conversation can begin with a user <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>content created
              from</indexterm></indexterm>creating a rough draft of <indexterm>publishing<indexterm>changes in</indexterm></indexterm>content, even as a question on a support forum. A
          technical communicator then builds a mental concept because of being afforded the user’s
          perspective through their contribution. Comments on wiki pages and two-way conversations
          on online forums are a prominent part of this type of content sharing, mixing, and
          modifying. </p><p><indexterm>publishing<indexterm>models</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>publishing<indexterm>incorrect
              content</indexterm></indexterm>Publishing models get turned over when anyone can
          publish content and make it instantly available through Internet channels. A few years ago
          it wouldn’t have been possible to view published content as easily and quickly as we can
          now. Of course people argue that the more content there is, the less peer-review or any
          review or editing it gets, so therefore it must be lesser quality. That assumption has not
          always held true, though, when evaluation<indexterm>evaluation<indexterm>of
              content</indexterm></indexterm> of the content may be based on whether it solves a
          problem quickly. A higher <indexterm>search<indexterm>rankings</indexterm></indexterm>search<indexterm>search<indexterm>accessing
              documentation through</indexterm></indexterm> ranking may prove that the
          consumer-created content is in fact helping more people. However, the converse of that
          issue is that if an incorrect message or workaround is being published, perhaps you should
          strike up a conversation with the person publishing the incorrect information to see how
          you can correct the content or the person’s perception. </p><p>If you read through <indexterm>discussions about content<indexterm>in
              comments</indexterm></indexterm>comments about your documentation from your users, you
          may find sophisticated readers who have high <indexterm>technical documentation<indexterm>expectations for</indexterm></indexterm>expectations for the consistency,
          organization, and findability<indexterm>findability</indexterm> of your documentation. </p><p>What you might also find is that every representation of your company just might be
          thought of as “<indexterm>technical documentation<indexterm>user
            suggestions</indexterm></indexterm>technical documentation,” including white papers or
          data sheets on your website that were not created in your department. I have been
          pleasantly surprised by suggestions from a customer that accurately pinpointed an area to
          improve based on the latest best practices and standards for online documentation. I’m
          certain that the next level of sophisticated information seeker will also have high
          expectations and concrete suggestions.</p><p>What also might follow, as your customers verbalize their hopes for product
          documentation, is a willingness to assist. So, another interesting aspect of this new
          publishing channel is what motivates people to contribute content. When it is your job to
          create the content, like it is for technical communicators, money is your motivation to
          some extent. Other content creators may be motivated by wanting to be known as an expert
          in the field, wanting to help others so that they’ll be helped in the future when needed,
          feeling like a part of a group or a greater cause, and finally, a sense of time gained by
          publishing something once instead of repeatedly sending the same message. </p><p>Shared content examples</p><p>The <indexterm>World of Warcraft</indexterm>World of Warcraft <indexterm>wikis,
              examples<indexterm>World of Warcraft</indexterm></indexterm>wiki is a popular wikis
          for players of the massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG). Recently
          ranked in the top 800 web sites in the United States by Alexa, it contains articles about
          the game’s characters, game play guides, customization guides, and strategy information.
          shows an article about combat that links to armor and weapon articles and describes
          concepts of combat in the game. </p><p>wowwiki.com<indexterm>wowwiki.com</indexterm></p><p>With the tagline “The How-to Manual that You Can Edit,” the <indexterm>wikis,
              examples<indexterm>wikiHow</indexterm></indexterm>wikiHow site contains many how-to
          articles with topics ranging from hobbies to holidays. In January 2009, the site surpassed
          the 50,000 article mark.<fn>
            <p>
              http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Jack_Herrick,_WikiHow_founder_interviewed_by_Wikinews</p>
          </fn></p><p><indexterm>wikihow.com</indexterm>wikihow.com<indexterm>wikihow.com</indexterm></p></body></subsection>