<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e1064"><title>Profile</title><body><p>LinkedIn<indexterm>LinkedIn</indexterm>, <indexterm>Naymz</indexterm>Naymz<indexterm>Naymz</indexterm>, Spock<indexterm>Spock</indexterm>, <indexterm>Friendster</indexterm>Friendster<indexterm>Friendster</indexterm>, MySpace,
            Facebook<indexterm>Facebook</indexterm></p><p><indexterm>profile, online</indexterm>Profile sites let users enter information about
          themselves (or others in the case of Spock). This information is searchable and can be
          correlated by entering information about relationships to others as well as your
          activities online and offline. Human Resources recruiters have found this source of
          information to be quite valuable, and sales and marketing and branding work and research
          are aided by studying these sites.</p><p>Much of the excitement and media coverage surrounding <indexterm>social
              networking<indexterm>sites</indexterm></indexterm>social media occurs when a large
          site that collects profiles about their users changes the way that data is displayed. For
          example, when MySpace<indexterm>MySpace<indexterm>site</indexterm></indexterm> began
          showing more distant relationships and activity that reached farther than users expected,
          users demanded that the feature be removed. Even though the data collection made it
          possible to see the relationships, users did not necessarily want these extended
          relationships revealed. Be aware that profiling can be misused, and privacy and
          portability of an online identity are controversial subjects. </p><p>Profile examples</p><p>LinkedIn is a networking site used primarily for keeping up professional contacts,
          performing job searches, writing recommendations for others, reading company profiles, and
          storing contact information for co-workers both current and previous. It is very useful
          for finding information about end-users of the products you document, such as their job
          titles and where they work.</p><p>Linkedin.com</p><p>Facebook, which originally allowed only college students to register on the site, has
          become hugely popular with over 200 million active participants, two-thirds of whom are
          not currently college students. Since it is the most widely used social networking site,
          based on minutes spent on it per month according to Nielson Online, you should observe
          Facebook for trends and usage patterns.<fn>
            <p>
              http://blog.nielsen.com/nielsenwire/online_mobile/time-spent-on-facebook-up-700-but-myspace-still-tops-for-video/</p>
          </fn></p><p>Facebook.com</p></body></subsection>