<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e24"><title>Tagging</title><body><p>folksonomy, social bookmarking<indexterm>social bookmarking</indexterm>, tag
            clouds<indexterm>tag clouds</indexterm>, taxonomy</p><p><indexterm>content<indexterm>tagging</indexterm></indexterm>Tagging involves a skill with
          which many technical writers are familiar—determining which keywords best describe a blog
          entry, link, photo, <indexterm>video<indexterm>tagging</indexterm></indexterm>video, or
          image for retrieval later. Social <indexterm>content<indexterm>bookmarking</indexterm></indexterm>bookmarking<indexterm>bookmarking,
            social</indexterm> sites like delicious.com<indexterm>delicious.com</indexterm> and
            digg.com<indexterm>digg.com</indexterm> use tagging, or keywords, to help users find
          their links later or group them into categories. What is more advanced and even social
          about tagging is that you can usually see the tags that others use, and also see the
          content that they’ve tagged. Tagging is a little more chaotic and less organized than more
          familiar techniques like indexing, so it might take some time to adjust your expectations. </p><p>For example, your company style guide<indexterm>style guidance</indexterm> might mandate
          that the gerund form of a verb is always required, or that plurals should be preferred
          keyword forms. But with tagging, any word or term is allowed, and sometimes the terms
          don’t match—work and working are one example of such tag mismatch. The collective set of
          tags is known as a <indexterm>folksonomy</indexterm>folksonomy—a taxonomy<indexterm>taxonomy</indexterm> created by everyday folks. Where taxonomies are strict and rigid,
          a folksonomy is flexible and allows for any term. Both are powerful. </p><p>Tag <indexterm>clouds, tag</indexterm>clouds are a visual method of displaying tags. Tag
          clouds use font size or weight to indicate the amount of content or popularity of each
          tag.</p><p>Visual cloud of words created on Wordle.net<fn>
            <p> Technically this is not a tag cloud since the words were collected from the feed for
              my blog, www.justwriteclick.com.</p>
          </fn></p><p>While social bookmarking and social tagging are some of the least adopted technologies on
          the social web, these very same technologies also show the most promise for businesses as
          they share information and <indexterm>collaboration<indexterm>social tagging
              and</indexterm></indexterm>collaborate internally and externally with others,
          according to a Gilbane survey.<fn>
            <p> Gilbane Report on Collaboration and Social Media 2008</p>
          </fn> While only 5% of those surveyed said they currently use social bookmarking, nearly
          half of those using it rated it very effective. Customer support groups can share how-to
          and troubleshooting information by using tags for links that answer customer questions.
          One technical publications group collects the tagged links from the support group once a
          week as a report on the most asked and answered questions. </p><p>Tagging examples</p><p>In 2003 the web site <indexterm>del.icio.us</indexterm>del.icio.us, now renamed
          delicious.com, offered users the ability to apply metadata as tags on stored bookmarks for
          easier retrieval later. Users also share their tagged bookmarks with others on the site.
          shows a list of bookmarks with the tags for each on the right-hand side.</p><p>delicious.com<indexterm>delicious.com</indexterm></p><p>Pronounced flicker, the photo-sharing site Flickr has an explore-by-tags feature () that
          shows the popularity of tags like “birthday” and “family.” The Hot tags area shows the
          most common tags used for recent uploads, and the font size of the list of tags indicates
          the popularity of that tag on the entire site.</p><p>flickr.com<indexterm>flickr.com</indexterm></p></body></subsection>