<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e1568"><title>User-generated content and community-generated content</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>communities<indexterm>content contributed by</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content contributed by</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p><indexterm>content<indexterm>user-generated</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content<indexterm>community-generated</indexterm></indexterm>We
          may think of feedback as a Web 2.0 phenomenon, but in fact, we can find examples of
          feedback mechanisms throughout the history of <indexterm>publishing<indexterm>feedback
              channels</indexterm></indexterm>publishing. Since publishing of content began, there
          have always been methods for incorporating feedback into the final product. Alan Porter
          describes in a blog post titled Publishing is not the Final Step,<fn>
            <p>
              http://http://blogs.webworks.com/aporter/2008/06/27/why-publishing-is-no-longer-the-last-step-in-the-process/</p>
          </fn> Shakespeare’s plays were modified each night based on audience <indexterm>participation<indexterm>audience</indexterm></indexterm>participation. The
          distributed work of the Oxford English Dictionary proposed in 1857 was to have
          contributors find quotations of a word’s use by combing through all of English literature
          including popular newspapers, magazines, and then submit the quote slips to the editor of
          the dictionary. New findings of a word’s use were brought into the next edition. </p><p>The key difference in today’s publishing landscape is that the speed at which feedback
          and findings can come in has been accelerating, and you need to be aware of the ways that
          information can come in. Users also have taken over some of the publishing themselves as
          blogs and wikis and powerful searching have made it incredibly easy for any user’s content
          to be noticed and helpful. </p><p><indexterm>user-generated content</indexterm>User-generated content is what you find in
            <indexterm>forums<indexterm>user-generated content in</indexterm></indexterm>forums and
            <indexterm>mailing lists<indexterm>user-generated content</indexterm></indexterm>mailing
          lists. It is likely to show up on a <indexterm>search<indexterm>accessing documentation
              through</indexterm></indexterm>search for information and troubleshooting.
          User-generated content varies widely in quality and may be outdated quickly. Readers of
          user-generated content need to understand “Caveat Lector”—Reader Beware.</p><p><indexterm>communities<indexterm>content contributed
          by</indexterm></indexterm>Community-generated content has a different <indexterm>community-generated content<indexterm>quality</indexterm></indexterm>quality bar. While
          a <indexterm>communities<indexterm>goals</indexterm></indexterm>community may have a
          mailing list as its primary form of communication, it’s likely the community is not using
          the mailing list itself to offer how-tos or detailed troubleshooting. Instead, a
          community, since it is defined with a common goal, may have a more formal means of content
          creation as one of the means to achieving that goal.</p><p>Individual users are likely faster at posting informal, conversational responses to
          specific questions. But a community may have a more thought-out approach to the big
          picture of what needs to be created, content-wise. I am not just talking about written
          content. I’m also thinking of Wordpress.tv, where the site was “seeded” with twenty or so
          professionally-created video tutorials, but then the community members’ contributions were
          also accepted. While it may take a while to create that content, and it might not have a
          professional voice-over, it is good enough to help another community member learn a
          particular WordPress technique. And, by leading with video offerings that gave an example
          of the quality level and expected pacing or chunking of the information, the community has
          a standard to meet.</p><p>Both types of content often offer “good enough” answers to questions or advice about the
          best way to proceed with a particular solution. Good enough is judged by the reader. One
          type of content generation is not more professional than another. Rather, the usefulness
          of the content vetted by a community is the criteria for judging its quality.</p><p>In my view, a set of community-generated content may be of higher quality than content
          created by individuals who do not share a common goal or want the same outcome. I would
          draw a distinction between user-generated content and community-generated content due to
          the motivations of a community being more aligned than a group labeled “users” who may be
          motivated by severely opposing aims. Chapter 4, Community and Documentation, explores
          community-generated content further.</p></body></subsection>