<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e1122"><title>Discussions</title><body><p>forum, board, email list, <indexterm>mailing lists<indexterm>community-based
              content</indexterm></indexterm>mailing list, instant messaging<indexterm>instant
            messaging (IM)</indexterm></p><p>For technical writers who are already affiliated with customer support, the idea of
          joining customer support <indexterm>moderation<indexterm>forums</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>discussions about content<indexterm>in
              forums</indexterm></indexterm>forums or moderating and joining in <indexterm>communities<indexterm>conversations in</indexterm></indexterm>conversations there is
          not a new one. Valuable relationships and much needed information are abundant in these
          online communities. Starting out by communicating on forums or <indexterm>boards<indexterm>message</indexterm></indexterm>boards is an excellent way to establish yourself as
          part of the user community. This section contains additional information on conversation
          starting and sustaining tools.</p><p>Instant messages</p><p>Online <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>instant
          messaging</indexterm></indexterm>instant messenger services such as Yahoo<indexterm>Yahoo</indexterm>, MSN<indexterm>MSN</indexterm>, AIM<indexterm>AIM</indexterm>,
            Skype<indexterm>Skype</indexterm>, or universally available <indexterm>discussions about
              content<indexterm>in IM</indexterm></indexterm>IM<indexterm>IM (Instant
            Messaging)</indexterm> clients such as Trillian<indexterm>Trillian</indexterm> or
            <indexterm>Meebo</indexterm>Meebo<indexterm>Meebo</indexterm> enable you to be available
          to customers directly. Instant messaging clients sometimes include <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>video</indexterm></indexterm>video and screen-sharing
          capabilities which is extremely useful for collaboration and explanation. </p><p>In her Agile<indexterm>Agile development</indexterm> Tech Writer blog post,<fn>
            <p> http://ffeathers.wordpress.com/2008/01/20/the-agile-technical-writer/</p>
          </fn> Sarah Maddox talks about answering Instant Messages from all around the world and
          being available to others to assist or just share humorous stories. Just be sure to have a
          sense of when to be unavailable, or keep “office hours” if the instant messaging
          communication devices become too disruptive for you to get your work done. </p><p>Online forums and mailing lists</p><p>In a <indexterm>forums<indexterm>participating in</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>conversations<indexterm>forums</indexterm></indexterm>forum, people can post
          questions about a product in hopes of getting answers quickly. Many open source products
          use forums as their sole support mechanism. Forums allow anyone to respond to a post or
          write a post. Complex forum software allows for HTML editing and emoticons in the text or
          signatures and has fully-featured notification and moderation systems. Community features
          include rating systems for each post or reply, avatars or profiles representing an online
          identity, private messaging, and even an indication of which users are currently online so
          people can talk with one another. You can use forummatrix.org to compare the features
          available in different forum software offerings.</p><p>Many forums use point systems or other methods for earning ranks, company t-shirts, or
          even a registration to a user conference. In some systems, you can vote on the helpfulness
          of an answer or thank another forum member for helping you. Cory Doctorow<indexterm>Doctorow, Cory</indexterm>‘s science fiction book, <i>Down and Out in the Magic
            Kingdom</i> contains a concept called <indexterm>whuffie</indexterm>whuffie—a
          reputation-based currency that emerges after all of society’s other needs are met for
          free. <indexterm>Hunt, Tara</indexterm>Tara Hunt<indexterm>Tara Hunt</indexterm> has a
          book called <i>The </i><indexterm>Whuffie Factor, The</indexterm><i>Whuffie Factor</i>,
          about the idea of whuffie to build online communities for business improvement. There are
          others building systems for online community reputation building. Yahoo Developer Network
          contains a library of design patterns for reputation solutions.<fn>
            <p> http://developer.yahoo.com/ypatterns/parent.php?pattern=reputation</p>
          </fn>
          <indexterm>forums<indexterm>earning rankings in</indexterm></indexterm>Forums are an
          accessible way to view and measure whuffie in an online system. </p><p>In , compare Guru status to Enthusiast­—Guru has more stars, likely earned with “whuffie”
          equivalent on the forum, such as the number of times they’ve been thanked per post.</p><p>Online reputation system</p><p>Online meetings</p><p>Several online tools make formal presentations and meetings easier to host and
          facilitate. Two-way <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>meetings</indexterm></indexterm>conversations as well as multiple participant
          conversations can be held with voice, chat, and even presentation slides or white boards
          shared with all participants. WebEx, GoToMeeting, Campfire, and Dim-dim are just a few
          examples available. </p></body></subsection>