<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e1486"><title>Evaluating newcomers on these content scenes</title><body><p>Whether you started with LinkedIn<indexterm>LinkedIn</indexterm> or Facebook<indexterm>Facebook</indexterm>, you probably learned about online <indexterm>social
              media<indexterm>tools</indexterm></indexterm>profile sites only to be stymied after
          receiving <indexterm>Naymz</indexterm>Naymz<indexterm>Naymz</indexterm> or Spock<indexterm>Spock</indexterm> invitations<indexterm>invitations to in-person events</indexterm>
          that spread like wild fire. How can you evaluate all these newcomers and determine which
          ones have any return on the time spent with them?</p><p>Here are some ideas for <indexterm>return on investment (ROI)<indexterm>evaluating social
              media tools</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>evaluation<indexterm>of new social media
              tools</indexterm></indexterm>evaluating newly available tools: </p><ul><li>Determine which types of people, such as small business owners or representatives of a
            corporate brand, are using certain tools, and specifically ask them what gains or
            returns they are seeing from that specific tool. </li><li>Figure out your goals with <indexterm>social networking<indexterm>tools</indexterm></indexterm>social networking, which will help you figure out if you
            need to be on every single network, or if a specific few that are directly related to
            your goals are the ones to focus on.</li><li>Trust just a few people’s opinions on a tool—if they give it a thumbs up, then try it
            for yourself. This technique may work well if a relatively obscure product becomes
            suddenly popular, but you do not have the time to determine the usefulness for yourself,
            your company, and your documentation.</li><li>Realize that not all social networking tools need to be evaluated with an enterprise
            or corporate application in mind. In some cases, a try it and see grassroots<indexterm>grassroots efforts</indexterm> effort can reveal much more about the tool than a few
            people evaluating with a checklist.</li><li>Be cautious when you experiment to find out where your users have their <indexterm>conversations<indexterm>locating</indexterm></indexterm>conversations. The strength
            of a community is more important than the tools used to reach that community.</li></ul><p>Management may want more specific criteria for determining a <indexterm>Web 2.0<indexterm>proving business value</indexterm></indexterm>Web 2.0 tool’s fit for the organization
          or for your end-users, but evaluating social tools is not always the same as measuring
          enterprise <indexterm>collaboration<indexterm>tools that
          enable</indexterm></indexterm>collaboration tools. For example, you may need to be more
          experimental in your tests with social tools, and use them under the radar before you can
          prove the business use, although this is a risky strategy. Management may say, “We can’t
          expend resources chasing the latest fad.” Reasonable as that view of resource allocation
          may be, it may cause you to miss crucial conversations that might pop up during a pilot
          phase. Seizing the opportunity to engage with someone deeply may be more important than
          time and resource equations, but inappropriate or unsanctioned outreach may get you fired. </p><p>One newcomer to keep an eye on is <indexterm>Google<indexterm>Wave</indexterm></indexterm>Google Wave, a personal communication and collaboration
          tool that doesn’t easily fit into any of the previous categories for social web content.
          Rather than tracking disparate pieces of conversations and content from many different
          Internet sources, objects known as “waves” contain a complete thread of multimedia
          messages. Because the “wave” is XML-based, many possibilities abound for shared content,
          plus for collaboration, Google Wave reinvents email as we know it today.</p></body></subsection>