<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e662"><title>Community </title><body><p>wiki, user-based content, crowdsourcing<indexterm>crowdsourcing</indexterm>, discussion </p><p>Community-based content can be a <indexterm>collaboration<indexterm>community</indexterm></indexterm>collaborative effort on a website, or an email
            <indexterm>mailing lists<indexterm>community-based content</indexterm></indexterm>list
          that has a core set of members contributing information that furthers the <indexterm>community-generated content<indexterm>wikis and</indexterm></indexterm>community‘s
          goals. As <indexterm>Happe, Rachel</indexterm>Rachel Happe states in her <indexterm>blogs,
              examples<indexterm>The Social Organization</indexterm></indexterm>blog entry, Social
          Media is not Community,<fn>
            <p> http://www.thesocialorganization.com/2008/07/social-media-is-not-community.html</p>
          </fn> “<indexterm>communities<indexterm>goals</indexterm></indexterm>Communities gather
          around a concept or common goal not around a collection of <indexterm>content<indexterm>community-generated</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>communities<indexterm>content
              contributed by</indexterm></indexterm>content (although content does plays a major
          role, it is not the impetus for the community). So while <indexterm>wikis<indexterm>collaboration in</indexterm></indexterm>wikis are a type of community-based content,
          a community cannot be interchanged with the social media tool itself that enables working
          on the community goals.” </p><p>Wikis are a fourteen-year-old technology <indexterm>communities<indexterm>wikis
              supporting</indexterm></indexterm>for creating web pages quickly, with the additional
          ability for anyone with the correct permissions to edit any page on the wiki. Created by
            <indexterm>Cunningham, Ward</indexterm>Ward Cunningham in 1995 for making quick web
          pages for a consulting firm, wikis offer cross-platform, cross-browser display and
          encourage collaboration. </p><p>Many <indexterm>wikis<indexterm>applications</indexterm></indexterm>wiki applications
          have sophisticated methods for resolving even simultaneous edits. They encourage what is
          called “crowdsourcing<indexterm>crowdsourcing</indexterm>,” organizing an open call for
          contributions from anyone with interest and ability. Crowdsourcing was a term used in a
          2006 Wired<indexterm>Wired</indexterm> article,<fn>
            <p> http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/14.06/crowds.html</p>
          </fn> but the concept dates back even to the 1800s when the Oxford English dictionary was
          created out of slips of paper with well-researched definitions submitted by
          volunteers.</p><p>For technical publications, wikis are an exciting new possibility for engaging the
          customer and getting the customer’s <indexterm>discussions about content<indexterm>in
              wikis</indexterm></indexterm>viewpoint on choices and tasks for concepts as well as
          scenarios for how they are using the product. Wikis offer living, breathing documentation
          due to the ability to change pages based on new information or based on the results of a
          discussion about the content. </p><p>Customers might expect a wiki to be in place for certain products, such as <indexterm>open source<indexterm>wikis for</indexterm></indexterm>open source technology or games.
          Even if your product doesn’t seem to support a group that would require or demand
          transparency and openness in the documentation, think about ways to offer collaborative
          tools even if you don’t offer a wiki.</p><p>I found the OLPC wiki at wiki.laptop.org very useful for project planning and recruiting.
          When I needed artwork to demonstrate how to open the laptop’s unique case, I posted a
          request on the Artwork Wanted page. I had two excellent figures sent via my wiki “Talk”
          page within three weeks. Also, I could talk to other wiki users by using their wiki “Talk”
          pages rather than relying on email.</p><p>Wiki examples </p><ul><li><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Adobe Labs</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>communities<indexterm>examples of online</indexterm></indexterm>Adobe Labs:
            labs.adobe.com/wiki/index.php/Main_Page</li><li>Ajax patterns: ajaxpatterns.org</li><li>Apache<indexterm>Apache</indexterm>
            <indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Apache</indexterm></indexterm>wiki:
            wiki.apache.org</li><li><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Motorola Q</indexterm></indexterm>Knoppix wiki :
            www.knoppix.net/wiki/Main_Page </li><li>Microformats wiki: microformats.org/wiki/Main_Page</li><li>Motorola Q: www.motoqwiki.com </li><li><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Mozillazine Knowledge
              Base</indexterm></indexterm>Mozillazine Knowledge Base:
            kb.mozillazine.org/Knowledge_Base</li><li>One Laptop per Child wiki: wiki.laptop.org<indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Opera
                Browser</indexterm></indexterm></li><li>Opera Browser and Internet Suite wiki: operawiki.info/Opera</li><li>SugarCRM <indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>SugarCRM</indexterm></indexterm>Wiki:
            www.sugarcrm.com/wiki/index</li><li><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Ajax patterns</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>SQL Lite</indexterm></indexterm>SQL Lite:
            www.sqlite.org/cvstrac/wiki</li><li><indexterm>SugarLabs</indexterm><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Microformats</indexterm></indexterm>SugarLabs wiki: wiki.sugarlabs.org</li><li><indexterm>wikis, examples<indexterm>Ubuntu</indexterm></indexterm>Ubuntu user
            documentation: help.ubuntu.com/community </li></ul></body></subsection>