<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e895"><title>Microblogging and post-style messaging</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>microblogging</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p>Twitter, Identi.ca, Jaiku, Tumblr</p><p><indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>described</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter or other
          microcontent sites can offer customers more updates on the <indexterm>status,
            indicating</indexterm>status of your work. Twitter is a web-based application that gives
          you 140 characters to answer the question, “what are you doing?” The now-closed <indexterm>Pownce</indexterm>Pownce website offered mobile integration so that cell phone users
          could triangulate position if the user chose to reveal it to their friends.
            Facebook<indexterm>Facebook</indexterm> and LinkedIn have a status application built
          into the Profile page, where you fill in an answer to “What’s on your mind?” or “What are
          you working on?” or other fill-in-the-blank completion statements for your current status,
          state of mind, or whereabouts.</p><p>Twitter<indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>use at conferences</indexterm></indexterm> is
          especially useful if you are at a user conference and want to get together with
          like-minded individuals. Twitter’s character limit can be a difficult adjustment to figure
          out what you can communicate in such a small amount of text, but, integrating IM<indexterm>IM (Instant Messaging)</indexterm>-like or SMS-based communications into <indexterm>technical documentation<indexterm>microposts</indexterm></indexterm>technical
          documentation might provide an innovative delivery method for instant online help when a
          customer needs it. Think of the Tips and Tricks documentation sometimes offered as a
          beginning blurb when a software product launches. Twitter’s “tweets” are a similar small
          excerpt of information. </p><p>Provide a <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>integrating with technical
              documentation</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter feed of tips and tricks for your
          software, or news updates when a critical <indexterm>wikis<indexterm>broadcating page
              updates via Twitter</indexterm></indexterm>wiki page has been added to, or find ways
          to have IM-like discussions with your services or consulting teams while they are out on
          customer service calls. If you are familiar with the XML-based Darwin Information Typing
          Architecture (DITA), you could also think of Twitter posts like the &lt;shortdesc&gt;
          element required in every DITA topic that summarizes the topic.</p><p>You could also use microblog posts to offer a tip of the day, and link to an online help
          topic or support article each day. You can use Twitter helper applications like ping.fm to
          schedule posts to many social networks. Sarah <indexterm>Maddox, Sarah</indexterm>Maddox
          recently posted her experience with using Twitter to announce changes to their software
          product with links to release notes. She described their use of <indexterm>hashtags</indexterm><indexterm>tagging<indexterm>hashtags</indexterm></indexterm>hashtags
          and offers a detailed write up in this blog entry, <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>integrating with technical documentation</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter as a medium
          for release notes.<fn>
            <p> http://ffeathers.wordpress.com/2009/06/08/twitter-as-a-medium-for-release-notes/</p>
          </fn></p><p>With Twitter<indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>hashtags</indexterm></indexterm>, you can also
          put <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>keywords</indexterm></indexterm>keywords, or hashtags,
          into your posts and automatically create a Twitter theme, called a <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>theme (Tweme)</indexterm></indexterm>Tweme. Posts with hashtags,
          indicated with a # sign in front of the keyword, are collected on a single page at
          twemes.com/keyword. For example, at the 2008 <indexterm>STC Summit</indexterm>STC Summit,
          Twitter users could enter #stc2008 anywhere in their Twitter post, and everyone could view
          those posts at http://twemes.com/stc2008. In 2009, the crowd chose #stc09 as the hashtag
          for Twitter posts related to the 2009 STC Summit. The search.twitter.com page was
          available by 2009, making it even easier to find the hashtags related to the conference.
          Beware of relying on Twitter servers for long term storage—often you cannot find the
          aggregate listing after a certain amount of time has passed, apparently about a week. </p><p>One of my favorite <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>story
          about</indexterm></indexterm>stories about Twitter’s usefulness at real-time events is
          from SXSWi 2008. At Tom <indexterm>Parish, Tom</indexterm>Parish’s social media metrics
          panel, I sat next to Summer Huggins, who works in Austin for Hammock, a media company
          based out of Nashville. We chatted about Austin, how I feel like a tourist in my own town
          when I come downtown, and laughed about the Compass Bank building when she said it looks
          like a giant nose hair trimmer. (Yes, it does.)</p><p>When she left the talk, she accidentally left her digital camera on her seat. I noticed
          it and asked both of the attendees in front of me if they caught her last name so that I
          could try to find an email address for her in the SXSWi attendee directory. None of us
          could remember her last name.</p><p>So, I took the camera in its cute case to the SXSW information desk to be placed in Lost
          &amp; Found, telling them that someone named Summer from Austin would hopefully pick it
          up. They said they’d be open until 8:00 and it would be kept in a safe place
          overnight.</p><p>Later that night, I started searching on twitter for someone named Summer from Austin who
          maybe, just maybe, had talked about attending the social media metrics panel. Sure enough,
          SummerH posted a tweet marked with #SXSW<fn>
            <p> http://twitter.com/SummerH/statuses/768730904</p>
          </fn> saying she had lost her digital camera! I immediately sent her a irect message on
          Twitter, clicked through to her blog, found her email address, and sent her an email
          telling her she could pick up her camera at SXSW Lost &amp; Found. Problem solved!</p><p>Summer was very excited and also noted the power of the Twitter and SXSW attendees by
          tweeting, “Lost camera is in-hand. How much do SXSWers rock?!?!” </p><p>A single Twitter status update</p><p>Twitter can also be useful for <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>crowdsourcing</indexterm></indexterm>crowdsourcing answers to simple questions. One
          example is the reaction David Pogue’s followers had to his demonstration of Twitter by
          asking “I need a cure for hiccups... RIGHT NOW! Help?”<fn>
            <p> http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/29/technology/personaltech/29pogue-email.html</p>
          </fn> He didn’t indicate that he was merely demonstrating the power of Twitter for a
          conference in Las Vegas, though. He had responses nearly immediately, but after those who
          answered his query found out he was showing off Twitter to a crowd of 1,000 people, their
          reactions ranged from humor to annoyance to feeling used. </p><p>I had an experience where I mentioned on Twitter that I was looking for Super Mario
          Jibbitz for Crocs shoes. I had two responses pointing me to sources for the item by the
          end of the day, from two differenful <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>for
            support</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter users can make a difference in the corporate
          world, also. TurboTax has customer support representatives with a Twitter account at
          http://twitter.com/turbotax. The Twitter bio section for that account gives the names of
          real people. They are posting helpful hints but also talking to others when they have
          questions. If your <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>integrating with technical
              documentation</indexterm></indexterm>technical publications role is closely aligned
          with the technical support department, and you think lots of your customers would
          appreciate a Twitter account to talk to, you might consider starting one with tips,
          tricks, and helpful information. </p><p>A blog might be enhanced with a Twitter account in a couple of ways. I was surprised when
          my number of Twitter followers passed my number of blog subscribers in 2009. I now link to
          blog entries from my Twitter account even though I was originally reluctant to do so (in
          2007) because I thought people who followed me on <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>linking to
              blog</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter would be reading my blog from somewhere else, like
          a feed reader. In 2009, I did try automating the twitter post that linked to my <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>Twitter links to</indexterm></indexterm>blog entry with a <indexterm>WordPress</indexterm>WordPress plug in, but ultimately I choose not to automate linking
          to my blog entries, because I wanted to generate discussion and talk to others, not just
          get people to click-through to my blog.</p><p>Microblogging example</p><p>The <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>example</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter interface is as
          shockingly simple as your very first glance at the Google search engine form. It contains
          a single field with the label “What are you doing?” You enter up to 140 characters in that
          field, click the update button, and your <indexterm>blogs<indexterm>microblogging</indexterm></indexterm>microblog post is sent to all your followers. By
          following people on Twitter, you create your own “timeline” of the people you choose to
          follow to read their micropost updates.</p><p>Twitter.com</p></body></subsection>