<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e1417"><title>Virtual content</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>conversations<indexterm>virtual</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>virtual</indexterm><indexterm>content<indexterm>virtual</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>virtual</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p>virtual reality<indexterm>virtual reality</indexterm>, Second Life<indexterm>Second
            Life</indexterm></p><p>Training organizations are already finding the value in offering training<indexterm>training</indexterm> programs on Second Life, where people can gather with avatars that
          represent their personalities online. Second Life is a virtual three-dimensional
          environment where users create the buildings, land, and entire environment as well as
          clothing for avatars that represent them in the virtual <indexterm>communities<indexterm>virtual</indexterm></indexterm>community. Once in Second Life, users connect,
          socialize, chat, and interact with each other in the visual three-dimensional world.</p><p>For products that need demonstration visually there may be value for developing a
          training area in Second Life, but you need to consider development costs. You may also
          find that the risk of “griefers<indexterm>griefers</indexterm>” tearing down your virtual
          training environment is greater than the efforts spent in creating the environment. Also
          consider the maintenance costs of virtual training environments, and whether the expertise
          will be available for future modifications to the training curriculum or coursework. </p><p>Second Life auditorium-style meeting room<fn>
            <p> http://www.flickr.com/photos/krossbow/2717822171/</p>
          </fn></p><p>Virtual world examples</p><p>Second Life contains learning areas such as the auditorium in used by Discovery
          Education. The virtual screen on display is called a Smartboard. </p><p>The three-dimensional nature of the world is shown in at a seated gathering of students.
          People design avatars to represent themselves in the virtual world, and you can see the
          body language indicated by the avatar leaning over to talk to an avatar in another chair
          in the figure.</p><p>Second Life informal graduate student meeting<fn>
            <p> http://www.flickr.com/photos/pathfinderlinden/157712296/</p>
          </fn></p></body></subsection>