<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e1341"><title>Photos, video, media</title><prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>content<indexterm>video</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>video</indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog><body><p>photo sharing, video<indexterm>video<indexterm>sharing</indexterm></indexterm> sharing,
          viral video</p><p>For products that need visual explanations, you could post photos<indexterm>photos</indexterm> to Flickr or <indexterm>video<indexterm>social media
              tool</indexterm></indexterm>videos to <indexterm>You Tube</indexterm>You Tube to
          demonstrate certain tasks or show time-saving techniques. If you use tagging<indexterm>tagging<indexterm>media</indexterm></indexterm> on Flickr, you can have users
          contribute their own screenshots with annotations about the customization they’ve done to
          your product. An example is an iPhone<indexterm>iPhone</indexterm> screenshot that shows a
          row of icons that the user has customized, along with how-to information imbedded in the
          screenshot. </p><p>The idea of “<indexterm>video<indexterm>viral</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>going
            viral</indexterm>going <indexterm>viral, going</indexterm>viral” with a video seems much
          more like marketing alignment than technical support alignment, so it may not be useful to
          your particular application, but it is good to know what the concept of something “viral”
          is. Going viral means that people are spreading a video, image or text by communication
          means using Internet web sites or email messages. Content may go viral because of exposure
          on a popular blog like boingboing.net, like the Burger King chicken letting people play a
          flash animation to “have it your way” at www.subservientchicken.com. I don’t believe going
          viral is a necessary goal for end-user documentation or for building a community around a
          wiki. But, for <indexterm>social networking<indexterm>integrating with
              documentation</indexterm></indexterm>technical marketing material, you would be glad
          to have a link to a white paper or a tip of the day go viral on Twitter. For example,
            <indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>vehicle for "going viral"</indexterm></indexterm>Twitter
          posts can reach many people through the “<indexterm>retweet (RT)</indexterm><indexterm>Twitter<indexterm>retweet</indexterm></indexterm>retweet” feature where people send a
          copy of a twitter post along with the label “RT” and an attribution to the original
          poster. If you are so fortunate to create a viral link or video, ensure it’s accurate and
          helpful to your users before it gets 12 million views on You Tube. Due to the speed of
          forwarding, “going viral” can be as dangerous as it is useful for instruction. </p><p>Media example</p><p>You Tube is a video-sharing site that converts uploaded videos of any format into
          Flash-based videos that are easily played back on the web site. People can also embed
          videos from You Tube onto other web sites. shows instructions for installing a bulk ink
          system for a printer.<fn>
            <p> http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6c_a565qXxg</p>
          </fn> Interestingly, by creating a video response to another video You Tube users “talk
          back” to each other, and comments on videos spark discussions.</p><p>youtube.com </p></body></subsection>