<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE subsection
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:dita4publishers.sourceforge.net:doctypes:dita:subsection" "subsection.dtd">
<subsection id="d5e1268"><title>Mashups</title><body><p>Mashups, multimedia, machinima<indexterm>machinima</indexterm></p><p>A <indexterm>mashups</indexterm><indexterm>content<indexterm>combining</indexterm></indexterm>mashup is a recombination of two or more sources of
          data to create a new deliverable or service. A classic example of a mashup is a map
          mashup, in which map data is overlaid with other data, such as favorite restaurant
          locations or data from event planning software that shows you which conference centers are
          booked for which dates, overlaid on a hybrid street and satellite image map that you can
          zoom in or move around. For example, you can <indexterm>search<indexterm>in
              mashups</indexterm></indexterm>search for a Nintendo <indexterm>Wii</indexterm>Wii for
          sale near you with combined data sources at wiinearby.com. </p><p>Part of the concept of social media is that data can be recombined in innovative ways.
          Michael <indexterm>Priestly, Michael</indexterm>Priestly demonstrated how different
          DITA-based feeds can be recombined in different deliverables with the <indexterm>IBM<indexterm>Custom Content Assembler</indexterm></indexterm>IBM <indexterm>Custom
            Content Assembler, IBM</indexterm>Custom Content Assembler using DITA feeds for Lotus
          product documentation.<fn>
            <p> http://www-10.lotus.com/ldd/ltieteamblog.nsf/dx/custom-content-assembler</p>
          </fn> DITA is an XML-based architecture for authoring, producing, and delivering technical
          information. Users select and oy want in a custom “book” and the user-created compilation
          is both searchable and reusable. A similar capability is available in the Remix area of
          the FLOSS Manuals website at http://en.flossmanuals.net/remix. To make a manual remix, you
          select a group of topics and then drag and drop the topics (chapters) onto the “remix
          box.” Like the DITA-based Custom Content Assembler from IBM, you can export to PDF or
          HTML. Several years ago <indexterm>Microsoft<indexterm>online user
            assistance</indexterm></indexterm>Microsoft introduced a powerful format and data
          display mashup in their online user assistance—a hyperlink that opens a dialog box to
          complete a task instead of just linking to a web page that might contain a form. Although
          this sort of mashup is simply a way of helping a visitor choose what to display or
          activate, its immediate involvement of the visitor brings it into the category of social
          media.</p><p>Mashup example</p><p>The <indexterm>FLOSS Manuals<indexterm>remixing content</indexterm></indexterm>FLOSS
          Manuals remix I built for the One Laptop per Child project enabled us to write separate
          manuals for the hardware and software, plus we could deliver HTML <indexterm>help,
              online<indexterm>mashups in</indexterm></indexterm>help that shipped with several
          thousand laptops around the world. </p><p>The remix is also used to export to “widgets” that can be embedded in HTML pages to
          populate <indexterm>content<indexterm>mashups</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content<indexterm>integrating</indexterm></indexterm>content on other websites
          outside of FLOSS Manuals. See for an example of the FLOSS Manuals remix interface.</p><p>FLOSS Manuals REMIX feature</p></body></subsection>