<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_bp1_fjc_md">
 <title>Controlling Topic
    Numbering</title>
 <shortdesc>The mode
    <keyword>enumeration</keyword>
    manages generating numbers for use
    in topic titles. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The named template
      <keyword>getTitle</keyword> is
      used to get the title text for a
      topic. The base template in this
      mode then calls templates in the
      mode
      <keyword>enumeration</keyword>,
      which may generate numbers for the
      topic titles. All contexts in
      which you need a topic title
      should go through the
      <keyword>getTitle</keyword>
      template so that the titles are
      constructed consistently. This is
      true for topics in the main flow
      as well as for bookmap list
      construction and Contents page
      construction.</p>
    <p>The base PDF processing
      automatically numbers topics of
      type "topicPart", "topicChapter",
      and "topicAppendix" and that
      processing is not modified.</p>
    <p>Processing of topics within
      parts, chapters, and appendixes is
      handled by the default enumeration
      templates for topics that are not
      within frontmatter or backmatter
      publication regions when numbering
      is turned on.</p>
    <p>You can turn numbering of
      non-top-level topics on by setting
      the global XSLT variable
      <varname>d4pTopicEnumerationStyle</varname>
      to one of the values "military" or
      "outline". Military numbering uses
      the format pattern 1.1.1.1 and
      outline numbering uses the pattern
      I.A.1.a.i.1. The base definition
      of the variable is in
      <filepath>enumeration.xsl</filepath>.
      You can either just modify it
      locally or put a redefinition in
      one of your customization XSLT
      files.</p>
    <p>You can implement your own
      template in the
      <keyword>enumeration</keyword>
      mode to implement different
      numbering behavior. See the
      templates in
      <filepath>enumeration.xsl</filepath>
      for sample code.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
